WELCOME TO THE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7TH TWENTY
TWENTY TWO REGULAR MEETING THAT
OF REPLANNING MISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON THE
MEETING PROCEDURES PLEASE
REVIEW THE FULL PRINTED MEETING
AGENDA THAT IS PROVIDED.
&gt;&gt; MR. LEONARD, WILL YOU CALL
THE ROLL?
&gt;&gt; YES, COMMISSIONER RANDALL
PRESENT COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
HERE COMMISSIONER SILVER HAIR
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE.
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE
COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER CLARK COMMISSIONER
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM THREE
WHICH IS THE APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DYCHE ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY OR
RAISE YOUR HAND MOTION CARRIES
ALREADY FOR ITEM NUMBER FOUR.
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE WE HAD ANY
MINUTES THAT WERE ATTACHED TO
OUR AGENDA.
SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO GO THROUGH
LAST THROUGH THAT ONE AND ON TO
ITEM FIVE WHICH IS REPORTS FROM
CITY ADMINISTRATION CITY OH I
DO THINK HAVE THE AUGUST 3RD
MINUTES ATTACHED THE UPDATED
AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; OH I SEE.
NOT THE ONE THAT I PRINTED OUT
AT FIVE FIFTEEN.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO IF YOU HAVEN&apos;T HAD TIME TO
REVIEW IT WE CAN POSTPONE IT
UNTIL THE NEXT MEETING OR IF
OTHERS HAVE HAD A CHANCE TO
REVIEW IT&apos;S UP UP TO THE
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; ANY SENSE OF THAT?
DID PEOPLE HAVE A CHANCE TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THEM?
I DID NOT PERSONALLY RECOMMEND
WE JUST CAME FORWARD TO THE
NEXT REPORT TO THE NEXT ONE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT&apos;S SO OK.
&gt;&gt; NEXT WE HAVE ITEM FIVE WHICH
IS REPORTS FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING PLANNING MANAGER
PLANNING COMMISSION OFFERS
OFFICERS AND LIAISONS.
SO LET&apos;S START WITH
COMMISSIONER OR A COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH ITEM THINK I HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT FROM?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;M HAPPY TO REPORT
JUST A COUPLE OF PLANNING
ADJACENT ITEMS THAT WERE ON THE
COUNCIL AGENDA.
THERE WAS A PROPOSED HISTORIC
DISTRICT STUDY COMMITTEE REPORT
FOR CREATION OF A NEW HISTORIC
THE HISTORIC HEYDEN HOUSE
HISTORIC DISTRICT WAS PRESENTED
TO COUNCIL NO ACTION AND
COUNCIL DID ALSO AUTHORIZE
ACCEPTANCE OF A GRANT AWARD AT
PLANNING SERVICES HAS RECEIVED
FROM THE STATE OF MICHIGAN FOR
AN UPDATE TO THE HISTORIC
RESOURCE SURVEY OF OUR OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; SO NOT PLANNING BUT I KNOW
THAT YOU CARE ABOUT HISTORIC
PRESERVATION ALSO SINCE OUR
LAST MEETING A MEETING OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
HAS MET THEY PROVIDED ME WITH A
LOT OF FEEDBACK ON THE PROPOSED
SCOPE THAT WILL BE ISSUED FOR A
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS FOR
CONSULTANTS SO I&apos;M IN THE
PROCESS OF DOING MY BEST TO
INCORPORATE THAT LANGUAGE IN
THE BEST WAYS THAT I SEE
APPROPRIATE AND THEN WE&apos;LL BE
ISSUING THAT RFP SHORTLY.
ANYTHING TO ADD?
I&apos;M SEEING SOME YES PLEASE GO
AHEAD.
UH, I WILL REPORT THAT THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
MET ON AUGUST TWENTY THIRD AND
DISCUSSED THE TCE ONE ZONING
DISTRICT.
A COUPLE OF ISSUES THAT HAD
ARISEN DURING DISCUSSION AMONG
THE PLANNING COMMISSION THE
WEEK PRIOR ON AUGUST 16TH SO
NAMELY THE SET BACK STANDARD AS
IT RELATES TO STREET TREES AND
GREEN SPACE AND THE SETBACK AS
IT RELATES TO SAFETY FOR
DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS.
AND WE WERE JOINED BY RAYMOND
HESS, THE TRANSPORTATION
MANAGER AT THAT MEETING.
AND I THINK THAT PLANNING STAFF
IS PREPARING A PRESENTATION FOR
THE WHOLE PLANNING COMMISSION
TO DISCUSS FUTURE WORKING
SESSION.
GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR DOING THAT.
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WAS I
APPRECIATE THAT YOU ALL TOOK IT
ON.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS ARE
LIAISON&apos;S
THAT HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT.
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON THEN TO
ITEM SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL FIRST INDIVIDUAL
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISE THE HAND
FEATURE IF YOU ANSWER THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESS
ISTAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS WHO&apos;VE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER YOU
WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY ALREADY.
SO FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION AND PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS IS THERE ANYBODY
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON AN ITEM THAT IS NOT ON
THE AGENDA FOR TONIGHT?
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M NOT SEEING ANYBODY SO
ANYBODY REMOTE MR. LEONARD
NO
SPEAKERS ARE INDICATING A
DESIRE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
OK, COULD WE MOVE ON TO ITEM
SEVEN WHICH ARE THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING
?
WE CAN ONE MOMENT
PRIVATE
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING.
WE&apos;LL HAVE A PROPOSED SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE FOR A DESIGNATED
CONSUMPTION FACILITY AT THIRTY
EIGHT SIXTY RESEARCH PARK
DRIVE.
THIS IS A LOCATION WITH AN
EXISTING PROVISIONING CENTER
AND IS PROPOSING TO ADD A
DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION FACILITY
TO THE SAME LOCATION.
WE HAVE A SITE PLAN WITH A
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION FOR FIVE
TO NINE TO TREAT FOR REDEEMER
CHURCH.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A PROPOSED
REDEVELOPMENT OF THE JEFF THE
OLD TREASURE MART THANK YOU
TREASURE TROVE SITE.
AND THEN WE ALSO HAVE PROPOSED
NEW DEVELOPMENT NORTH MARBLE
APARTMENTS.
THIS IS A PROPOSED SITE PLAN
AND ZONING AT THE SOUTH WEST
INTERSECTION OF FOURTEEN AND
MAPLE, A PROPOSED APARTMENT
DEVELOPMENT WITH SURFACE
PARKING AND SORT OF ACCESSOR
THE AMENITY BUILDING I&apos;M
PROPOSING SOME AFFORDABLE
UNITS, SOLAR INSTALLATIONS FOR
CONSIDERATION ALL ON THAT
AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; GREAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU ALREADY WE WILL
MOVE ON THEN TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS AND TO ITEM EIGHT A
WHICH IS THE VILLAGE OF AN
OVERSIGHT PLAN AND REZONING TO
OUR FOR A MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLING ZONING FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THE PETITIONER PROPOSES TO
CONSTRUCT FIVE HUNDRED AND
SIXTY ONE DWELLING UNITS ON
APPROXIMATELY SIXTY FIVE ACRES
AT SIXTEEN EIGHT OH DUVAN ROADS
ROAD UNITS INCLUDE OWNER
OCCUPIED AND RENTAL UNITS
ACCESS&apos;S PROPOSED FROM PONTIAC
DUAA AND ROAD AND LASTLY PARK
STORMWATER ATTENTION AS
PROPOSED ON SITE.
THE PROJECT INCLUDES A WETLAND
USE PERMIT FOR POINT OH ACRE
OF WETLAND IMPACT CONSTRUCTION
IS CURRENTLY PROPOSED TO TAKE
PLACE IN TWO PHASES STAFF
RECOMMENDATION.
WE ARE STILL KIND OF I THINK WE
ARE GOING TO BE GETTING SOME
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THAT
IF JUMP IN.
SO FIRST OF ALL MY APOLOGIES TO
THE COMMISSION AND TO MEMBERS
THE PUBLIC OVER THE WEEKEND WE
HAD QUITE A BIT OF BACK AND
FORTH.
YOU WILL RECALL THAT THIS ITEM
WAS POSTPONED FROM THE JULY
MEETING.
WE WERE HOPING THAT ALL ISSUES
WOULD BE RESOLVED IN TIME FOR
THIS POSTPONE WHICH WE
SPECIFIED AT THAT TIME.
MANY OF THOSE ISSUES WERE
RESOLVED.
&gt;&gt; WE ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED YOUR
PACKET OPTIMISTICALLY THAT ALL
THOSE ISSUES WOULD END UP BEING
VERIFIED.
WE WERE TRYING TO BALANCE
GETTING THE INFORMATION
MATERIALS OUT TO THE COMMISSION
AND TO THE PUBLIC WHILE ALSO
GIVING ABOUT A WEEK FOR OUR
TEAM TO BE ABLE TO REVIEW
REVISED DOCUMENTS.
IN SHORT, WE LEARNED THAT OUR
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND
TRAFFIC REVIEW DEPARTMENT HAD
NOT WITHOUT IN A POSITION TO
RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
WE MODIFIED OUR RECOMMENDATION
TO YOU OVER THE WEEKEND
REFLECTING THAT SUBSEQUENTLY
WE&apos;VE WORKED HARD WITH THOSE
TEAMS.
THOSE TEAMS HAVE WORKED REALLY
HARD.
THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT AND
THE PETITIONERS PROVIDED A LOT
OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS
WELL.
IN SHORT, WE ARE RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL OF THIS PETITION.
WE HAVE ADDED SOME CONDITIONS.
HOWEVER, ONE OF THOSE
CONDITIONS IS THAT THE PUBLIC
SERVICES ENGINEERING REVIEW IS
APPROVES ALL OF THE OUTSTANDING
COMMENTS PRIOR TO US SCHEDULING
THIS FOR CONSIDERATION AT THE
CITY COUNCIL.
THERE&apos;S ALSO OUR RECOMMENDATION
FOR A VARIANCE, A CONDITION FOR
A VARIANCE AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; JUST TO BE CLEAR, WE DID
HAVE SOME CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE BROWNFIELD ASPECT OF THIS
PETITION AT A PREVIOUS AT THE
PREVIOUS DISCUSSION.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT IS THEIR
BIGGEST CONCERN IS TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE UTILITIES ARE GOING TO
BE INSTALLED IN AN APPROPRIATE
WAY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE
CONTAMINANTS THAT ARE ON SITE.
THEY HAVEN&apos;T BEEN ABLE TO
CONCLUDE THAT WE HOPE THAT THEY
WILL BE ABLE TO CONCLUDE THAT
AND WILL NOT HAVE IMPACTS TO
THE SITE PLAN IF FOR SOME
REASON IT DOES THAT PLAN MAY
HAVE TO COME BACK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IF IT IS
REFINED SO AGAIN, I APOLOGIZE
FOR THE BACK AND FORTH.
THAT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
OF EXPLANATION OF HOW WE WERE
TRYING TO TROUBLESHOOT SOME
OF THOSE ISSUES OVER THE PAST
FEW DAYS ALREADY I THINK WE ARE
MOVING ON THEN TO PETITION OUR
PRESENTATION FOR UP TO TEN
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; SO GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
STILL TO RUN 16 BLOOMFIELD YES.
THERE NEW BACKER COULD BE MOVED
UP TO THE PANEL SO HE CAN SHARE
THE SLIDES.
I WOULD APPRECIATE THAT.
I&apos;M JUST GOING TO INTERRUPT FOR
A SECOND TOO.
I&apos;M JUST NOTICING THAT THE
CAMERA SEEMS TO BE STARING AT
EVERYBODY&apos;S CHESTS INSTEAD
OF THEIR FACES AND I&apos;M
WONDERING IF THERE&apos;S I
APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
&gt;&gt; SEATON HAS BEEN WORKING ON
THAT THE FEED TO THE PUBLIC IS
IS ADEQUATE.
YOU CAN SEE MY TELEVISIONS.
GOT IT.
THERE&apos;S SOMETHING WITH THE
PODIUM FEED SO WE&apos;LL GO WITH
THE IMAGE THAT YOU ARE SEEING
IS NOT IDEAL BUT THE PUBLIC IS
SEEING THAT I INDICATED THAT WE
LIVE WITH THAT SINCE WE&apos;RE IN
THE ROOM.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A MUCH BETTER VIEW
TOTALLY.
THANK YOU.
SO AGAIN IT&apos;S GREAT GREAT TO BE
BACK IN FRONT OF YOU.
WE GOT REALLY GOOD FEEDBACK,
REALLY GREAT FEEDBACK FROM YOU
LAST TIME WE WERE HERE, YOU
KNOW, WE HAD A REALLY GOOD
DISCUSSION AS YOU KNOW, WE TOOK
A LOT OF THE FEEDBACK TO HEART
AND WE MADE A LOT
OF IMPROVEMENTS TO THE PLAN.
SO A NUMBER OF IMPROVEMENTS,
NOT THE LEAST OF WHICH IS OUR
PROMISE TO GO ALL ELECTRIC AND
THE FOR SALE SECTION OF THE
DEVELOPMENT WHICH LISTEN,
THAT&apos;S VERY IMPORTANT TO YOU
WHICH MEANS IT&apos;S VERY IMPORTANT
TO US.
WE&apos;VE DONE A LOT OF RESEARCH ON
THIS.
YOU&apos;VE GOTTEN US OUT OF OUR
COMFORT LEVEL A LITTLE BIT BUT
WE&apos;VE REALLY RESEARCHED IT AND
I THINK WE&apos;RE COMFORTABLE WITH
WHAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING AT THIS
POINT.
SO AGAIN, WE&apos;RE PROPOSING ALL
ELECTRIC FOR THE FOR SALE
SECTION WHICH IS BASICALLY THE
NORTHERN HALF NORTH OF THE EAST
WEST ROAD FOR THE MOST PART
THERE&apos;S SOME APARTMENTS ON THE
TOP OF THAT ON THE EAST SIDE.
BUT ALL THE FOR SALE WOULD BE
ALL ELECTRIC.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE EXCITED ABOUT THAT
BE PROVIDED FURTHER DEFINITION
OF THE TRAFFIC CONDITIONS AND
SPECIFICALLY AT OUR PIONEER
TRAIL ENTRANCE.
SO WE&apos;VE WORKED WITH TRAFFIC ON
THAT.
WE HAVE PROVIDED FOR A
COVERED BUS STOP WITH
COVERED BICYCLE PARKING.
WE&apos;VE WORKED THE ETA ON THAT SO
THAT WOULD BE WHAT WE&apos;D BE
PROVIDING ON PUTTING A TRAILER
ENTRANCE.
WE DID PROVIDE A PEDESTRIAN
CONNECTION TO OUR NORTH SIDE
WHEN IT ACTUALLY THE ROAD
ACTUALLY DID GO ON TO OUR
PROPERTY.
SO WE&apos;RE JUST SIMPLY CONNECTING
TO THAT EXISTING ROAD.
SO WE WERE ABLE TO WORK THAT
OUT WITH THE GREENS WHICH IS
GREAT.
I THINK THAT&apos;S A FANTASTIC
ADDITION.
WE&apos;LL BE PROVIDING CONTRAST
LIGHTS AND WE&apos;LL PROVIDING
SIGNS FOR THE CROSSWALK THAT&apos;S
EXISTING RIGHT NOW ON PONTIAC.
I WAS PUT IN WITH THE POLICY
DEVELOPMENT NORSKE WE HAVE
RESOLVED OUR ISSUES WITH SOLID
WASTE.
WE&apos;VE ADDED SOME INFORMATION ON
THE SITE PLAN WHICH I THINK
THEY&apos;RE AMENABLE TO ANOTHER
AMENABLE TO IF THINGS AREN&apos;T
WORKING IN THE FUTURE.
THERE&apos;S AN ALTERNATE PLAN BUT
WE FEEL BASED ON OUR EXPERIENCE
WITH MANY OTHER PRODUCTS THAT
WE&apos;VE BUILT THERE WILL BE NO
ISSUES WITH SOLID WASTE.
SO WE BELIEVE WE HAVE A
RESOLUTION TO THAT.
WE&apos;VE OFFERED OFFSITE ROAD
IMPROVEMENTS WHICH ARE OUTLINED
IN MY LETTER TO YOU.
HOPEFULLY WE&apos;LL GET OUR
MEMORANDUM WE HAVE REDUCED
PARKING.
I KNOW THAT THAT WAS CERTAINLY
SOMETHING THAT CAME UP.
SO WE&apos;VE REDUCED PARKING IN
BOTH THE FOR SALE AND THE FOR
RENT AREA.
SO THAT COVERS A LOT OF WHAT WE
TALKED ABOUT LAST TIME.
I&apos;D LIKE TO GO THROUGH THE
SLIDES BUT QUICKLY IT&apos;S JUST
TIME TO CUT OUT A BUNCH OF THEM
SINCE YOU&apos;VE SEEN THEM I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU
KNOW, IF THERE&apos;S NEW PEOPLE
WATCHING THAT THEY KNOW WHAT
THE PROJECT IS, IF THAT&apos;S OK
WITH YOU.
OK, SO IF YOU MOVE TO THE NEXT
SLIDE
IN
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU
CAN HEAR ME BECAUSE YOU KNOW IF
THE PUBLIC CAN HEAR THIS YOU
SHOULD BE ABLE TO.
&gt;&gt; OK, DARYN, CAN YOU PLEASE
TALK AS HE&apos;S TALKING?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT PRESENTING.
DID YOU RECEIVE THE POWERPOINT
MAYBE TRY TO PULL IT UP.
HERE WE GO.
OK, YOU GOT IT.
PERFECT.
UM, SO JUST QUICKLY ON THE
SUMMARY IT IS FIFTY EIGHT ACRES
THAT IS NET OF THE RIGHT OF WAY
FOR THE LAND LANDFILL OR SIXTY
SEVEN GROSS ACRES TOTAL AND AS
WE TALKED ABOUT LAST TIME WE DO
HAVE SOME ADDITIONAL ACREAGE
WE&apos;LL BE BRINGING FORTH ANY
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT PLAN AFTER
DESIGNATION IS SEVEN TO TEN
UNITS PER ACRE.
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE WITHIN THAT TOTAL
FOUR HUNDRED EIGHTY FOUR TOTAL
HOMES.
ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY FOUR
OF THOSE ARE FOR SALE.
THOSE ARE THE ONES I HAD
MENTIONED WOULD BE ALL ELECTRIC
AND THE THREE HUNDRED TWENTY
FOUR THESE ESSENTIALLY SINGLE
FAMILY TYPE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
AND TOWNHOMES AND THEN I&apos;LL
HAVE THEM IN A MENOTTI&apos;S
APARTMENT COMMUNITY YOU SIX
HUNDRED EIGHTY FOUR UP TO
EIGHTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
ONE TO FOUR BEDROOMS SO THAT IS
THE VILLAGE CONCEPT THAT WE SEE
A LOT OF DIFFERENT YOU KNOW
OPPORTUNITIES AND OPTIONS FOR
PEOPLE LOOKING TO LIVE IN THIS
COMMUNITY SO THAT THAT REALLY
HAS BEEN OUR GOAL FROM THE
START.
AND IF YOU CAN MOVE TO THE NEXT
ONE PLEASE PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
AGAIN MULTIPLE ENTRY POINTS.
THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT
ABOUT THIS.
A LOT OF DIFFERENT OPTIONS, A
LOT OF OPEN SPACE.
SIXTY FIVE PERCENT OPEN SPACE
PLUS NEW NEIGHBORHOOD
CONNECTION.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS WE TALKED
ABOUT LAST TIME IS THERE&apos;S A
DIRECT CONNECTION TO LESLIE
PARK FROM ORSON PARK WHICH WE
THINK IS JUST FANTASTIC RIGHT
NOW.
EVERYBODY KNOWS EVERYBODY KNOWS
THAT IT&apos;S REALLY DIFFICULT TO
GET TO LESLIE PARK AND WE THINK
THAT THIS REALLY WILL OPEN UP
REALLY GREAT AMENITY THAT THE
CITY ALREADY HAS MAKES.
RESIDENTIAL LAND USE IS
OBVIOUSLY WE&apos;RE RECLAIMING A
FORMER LANDFILL PROPERTY WHICH
IS A VERY IMPORTANT PART
OF THIS COMPONENT.
THIS IS WHY THEY&apos;RE 60 PLUS
ACRES OF LAND SITTING IN THE
MIDDLE OF ANN ARBOR.
SO WE&apos;RE WORKING VERY HARD TO
BE ABLE TO BUILD THIS IN A SAFE
MANNER AND WE&apos;VE GOT A VERY
GOOD CONSULTANT THAT&apos;S DONE A
LOT OF WORK ON THIS.
HE&apos;S ACTUALLY AVAILABLE IF
THERE&apos;S ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING
ANY OF OUR ENVIRONMENTAL AGAIN
WE&apos;RE GOING ALL ELECTRIC AND
THE FOR SALE AND USING ALL
ENERGY EFFICIENT APPLIANCES,
VERY FAMILY ORIENTED PLANS LIKE
I SAID UP TO FOUR BEDROOMS.
SO THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
SURELY LACKING HIGH QUALITY
OWNER OCCUPIED IN MENOTTI&apos;S
APARTMENT AND I WON&apos;T TALK
ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM THIS
TIME.
SO MOVING ON TO THE NEXT ONE.
SO IT&apos;S THE CONTEXT IN WHICH I
SHOWED YOU LAST TIME.
I THINK WHAT&apos;S IMPORTANT ABOUT
THIS IS WE&apos;VE BASICALLY PAID IN
OUR FOR A WALL AROUND US SO WE
CERTAINLY ARE FITTING AND
OF COURSE WE FIT IN WITH THE
MASTER PLAN.
THIS HAS BEEN LONG PLANNED FOR
SOMETHING VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT
WE&apos;RE WHAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING.
SO NEXT DURING AND THIS IS THE
OVERALL SITE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; SO TO THE LEFT I&apos;M JUST FOR
THOSE WHO ARE SEEING THIS FOR
THE FIRST TIME PONTIAC TRAIL IS
ON THE WEST WHICH IS THE LEFT
THAT&apos;S THAT ENTRANCE.
IT&apos;S A LONG ENTRANCE INTO THE
PROPERTY.
IT&apos;S A LOT OF WETLANDS THERE.
WE&apos;RE ONLY INTERACTING POINT
ZERO THREE ACRES OF WETLAND.
BUT YOU CAN SEE THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF WETLANDS AT THAT LOCATION SO
WE&apos;VE STAYED AWAY FROM IT.
OBVIOUSLY NOT DEVELOPING THAT
AREA.
I THINK IT&apos;LL BE PRETTY SERENE
ENTRANTS INTO THE DEVELOPMENT.
BE HONEST AND THEN YOU COME IN
YOU&apos;LL SEE A CLUBHOUSE TO THE
RIGHT FOR THE RENTALS AND THAT
ACTUALLY WILL BE OPEN FOR THE
FOR SALE OWNERS AS WELL AS PART
OF THEIR DUES ON THE NORTH SIDE
WHICH IS TOWARD THE TOP.
THAT WOULD BE THE FOR SALE
SECTION.
THOSE ARE TOWNHOMES, SINGLE
FAMILY, THAT KIND OF GREEN AREA
TO THE RIGHT A MIDDLE RIGHT
THAT IS THE LANDFILL AREA.
WE&apos;RE NOT PROPOSING TO TOUCH
THAT THAT WOULD BE TENS
OF MILLIONS UP TO ONE HUNDRED
MILLION DOLLARS TO FIX THAT AND
NOBODY IS GOING TO BE ABLE TO
DO THAT.
SO RIGHT NOW IT&apos;S A BEAUTIFUL
TRADE AREA.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO LEAVE IT
THAT WAY.
WE MAY HAVE SOME PATHS IN THE
NEXT VERSION YOU SEE OF THIS AS
WE&apos;RE WORKING WITH EAGLE ON HOW
TO MITIGATE ANY POTENTIAL
ISSUES THERE AND I THINK I
THINK WE&apos;LL BE ABLE TO DO
DURING NEXT SLIDE PLEASE.
AND AGAIN, THIS IS REALLY JUST
I THINK SIGNALING ALL OF THE
ADVANTAGES TO THE PROPERTY.
THIS IS NOT A SO WE&apos;RE NOT
REQUIRED TO HAVE A PUBLIC
BENEFIT BUT WE KNOW THAT THIS
IS A VERY LARGE PROPERTY.
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF STAKEHOLDERS INVOLVED.
WE WANTED TO DO THE BEST WE
COULD ON THIS PROPERTY SO I&apos;M
NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH ALL
OF THESE BUT IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
US THE POINT OUT THAT WE&apos;RE
PROVIDING THESE CONNECTIONS.
WE&apos;RE PROVIDING ALL ELECTRIC IN
A PORTION OF IT FOR RIDING THE
BUS STOP GOT MANY HUNDREDS
OF EV CHARGERS IN THE UNITS AND
ALSO FOR GUEST PARKING.
SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE OVER A
MILE BIKE AND PEDESTRIAN PASS.
THIS IS I THINK A VERY SPECIAL
PROJECT AND THIS IS ONE THAT
WE&apos;RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT.
NEXT SLIDE PLEASE AND WE&apos;LL GO
THROUGH ALL OF THESE.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THIS I SHOWED YOU
THIS LAST TIME BUT WE TOOK YOUR
YOUR POLICIES VERY SERIOUSLY
AND WE&apos;VE GONE THROUGH THIS AND
WE&apos;VE HAD A LOT OF CHANGES TO
OUR BUILDINGS THEMSELVES.
THE SITE DEVELOPMENT, HOW WE&apos;RE
DEVELOPING IT, THE TYPES
OF SUSTAINABLE ITEMS THAT WE&apos;RE
ADDING SUCH AS SOLAR PANELS ON
THE CLUBHOUSE, SOLAR
STREETLIGHTS AS I MENTIONED ALL
ELECTRIC ON ON THE NORTHERN
PORTION.
ALL OF THESE I THINK ARE VERY
IMPORTANT TO THE SUCCESSFUL
DEVELOPMENT AT THIS LOCATION.
SO THESE ARE ALL THE THINGS
THAT THAT WE SEE IN YOUR
POLICIES THAT WE&apos;RE HAPPY TO
PROVIDE ON THE PROJECT AND THE
NEXT SLIDE I THINK THERE&apos;S SOME
PRODUCT.
SO JUST QUICKLY, THESE ARE THE
ATTACH SINGLE FAMILY.
THESE REALLY ARE SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES ABOUT EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
FIFTY SQUARE FEET UP TO FOUR
BEDROOM, THREE BEDROOM LOFT OR
FOUR BEDROOMS AND I DON&apos;T KNOW
I THINK THERE&apos;S ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED THESE IF I&apos;M NOT
MISTAKEN NINETY ONE HUNDRED
OF THESE AND THAT&apos;S REALLY KIND
OF YOUR NORTHERN CENTRAL
CORRIDOR THERE TWO STORY
OBVIOUSLY AND THEY ARE ATTACHED
VERY NEXT SLIDE PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; THESE WOULD BE A TOWN HOME
SO THESE WOULD ALSO BE FOR
SALES IN THAT NORTHERN SECTION
AS WELL WOULD BE TWO CAR
TOWNHOMES AND ONE CAR TOWNHOMES
RANGING FROM THIRTEEN HUNDRED
TO SIX HUNDRED SQUARE FEET AND
DURING NEXT SLIDE PLEASE AND
THESE WOULD BE THE APARTMENTS
DTN WE&apos;RE VERY EXCITED TO HAVE
THEM AS A PART OF OUR IF YOU
DON&apos;T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT DTN
THEY&apos;RE VERY WELL REGARDED.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WE&apos;D WANT TO DO
THIS WITH ANYBODY SO WE&apos;RE VERY
HAPPY TO HAVE THEM ON BOARD AND
THEY&apos;RE A PARTNER ON THE
APARTMENT SECTION TO THE SOUTH
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THERE&apos;S ONE
MORE SLIDE AND REALLY THAT&apos;S
IT.
SO I&apos;D LOVE TO SPEAK TO YOU
AGAIN ABOUT THE IMPROVEMENTS
WE&apos;VE MADE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
YOU HAVE SINCE YOU&apos;VE LAST SEEN
ME AND I&apos;M HAPPY TO HAVE THE
CONVERSATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
MR KHAN, DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING
TO ADD REPORT?
ONE THING I DO WANT TO ADD IS
THAT WE DID RECEIVE AN EMAIL
THIS EVENING FROM OUR
TRANSPORTATION GROUP THAT
INDICATED THAT THEY&apos;RE INCLINED
TO ASK FOR A CONTRIBUTION FOR
THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW
ROUNDABOUT AT PONET TRAIL AND
DAVOREN AS WELL AS A
CONTRIBUTION FOR POTENTIAL
PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS OF PUNCAK
TRAIL AND POSSIBLY DURING.
I DO WANT TO ADD THAT AS BRETT
INDICATED, WE ARE PREPARED TO
RECOMMEND APPROVAL WITH THE TWO
CONDITIONS THAT ARE WITHIN THE
MOTION.
SO I&apos;D LIKE TO READ THAT STAFF
RECOMMENDATION STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSED R FOR
A ZONING BECAUSE IT IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND ELEMENT
AND IS COMPATIBLE WITH ZONING
IN THE SURROUNDING AREA.
STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
OF THE SITE PLAN AND WETLAND
USE PERMIT BECAUSE THE PROJECT
COMPLIES WITH ALL APPLICABLE
LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL
ORDINANCES STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS WILL NOT CAUSE A
PUBLIC OR PRIVATE NUISANCE AND
WILL NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY
AND WELFARE.
LASTLY, I ALSO WANT TO MAKE A
COMMITMENT TO ENSURING THAT OUR
PUBLIC SERVICES GROUP MEETS
QUICKLY WITH THE PETITIONER TO
ADDRESS ANY OF THE OUTSTANDING
ISSUES THAT THAT THAT EXISTS.
SO HOPEFULLY THOSE ITEMS CAN BE
ADDRESSED AND WE&apos;LL BE ABLE TO
TAKE IT ON TO CITY COUNCIL.
THANK YOU.
COULD YOU CLARIFY A LITTLE BIT
FOR ME ANYWAY?
I KNOW IN THE REPORT THEY WERE
CONTRIBUTING TO A ABOUT IS THIS
THE EMAIL THAT YOU HAVE?
IS THAT IN ADDITION TO THAT OR
IS THAT JUST KIND OF FORTIFYING
WAS ALREADY IN THERE?
SO WITH THIS THE STAFF REPORT
INDICATES IS A WILLINGNESS ON
THE PART OF THE DEVELOPMENT
TEAM TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE
ROUNDABOUT AS PART OF THE NON
ENVIRONMENTAL BROWNFIELD COSTS
WHICH WHICH MEANS THE DEVELOPER
HAS LISTED A NUMBER OF ITEMS
THAT THEY&apos;RE WILLING TO PUT
INTO THE NON ENVIRONMENTAL
BROWNFIELD WHICH NEEDS CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL AND THOSE ARE
DOLLARS THAT IN ESSENCE THE
DEVELOPER WOULD BE PROVIDING UP
FRONT BUT WOULD BE REIMBURSED
OVER 10 OR 15 YEAR PERIOD BY
THE CITY FOR FOR THOSE ITEMS
THE PETITIONER CAN CERTAINLY
SUMMARIZE WHAT THOSE ITEMS ARE
BUT THEY INCLUDE CONTRIBUTING
TO A PORTION OF THE COST OF THE
ROUNDABOUT AS WELL AS POTENTIAL
ELECTRIFICATION ITEMS.
BUT I THINK THE PETITIONER
WOULD BE ABLE TO SUMMARIZE
THOSE BETTER THAN I CAN.
OK, THANK YOU.
WE&apos;LL GET IN I THINK GO
THROUGH
THE PUBLIC HEARING THING IN
WHEN ONE WE&apos;RE REALLY IN THE
OF COURSE THE MODE TALKING
ABOUT IT THEN WE&apos;LL WE&apos;LL GET
INTO THINGS LIKE THAT I THINK
SO ALREADY.
SO LET&apos;S HAVE THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP FOR THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE GOALS OF AN
OVERSIGHT PLAN AND REZONING
WILL FIRST CALL IN INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE PRESENT AND THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THE PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USED TO
RAISE THE HAND FEATURE OF YOU
INTO THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND OUR MEETING IS NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
HER HANDS AND USE THE LAST
THREE DIGITS YOUR PHONE NUMBER
YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SIGNS THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
AND PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS TO ANYBODY
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION
OUR THE
FIRST WHAT MY NAME IS KEN
CLARK.
I LIVE AT FOUR NINE SEVEN
LARKSPUR STREET.
I&apos;M ONLY ABOUT A THOUSAND FEET
SOUTH OF THE DEVELOPMENT ON
PONTIAC TRAIL.
I BIKE MOSTLY TO GET AROUND MY
BIKE TO WORK TODAY AND BACK TO
THIS MEETING.
SO SOME OF MY CONCERNS ARE
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT BIKING WITH
REGARDS TO THIS DEVELOPMENT AND
CITY PLANS AND ADOPTED
PROPOSALS.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, I&apos;M GOING TO START
WITH SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
I REALLY DO LIKE THIS PROPOSAL
OVERALL BUT HAVING LOOKED
THROUGH THE MATERIAL TODAY AND
YESTERDAY THAT&apos;S BEEN UPDATED
RECENTLY, I&apos;M A LITTLE CONFUSED
ABOUT WHY THE DEVELOPERS ARE
TALKING ABOUT AIR BASED HEAT
PUMPS WHEN MOST RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR SOMEWHERE LIKE ANN ARBOR
WOULD BE FOR GROUND LOOP HEAT
PUMPS WHICH WORK FABULOUSLY IN
OUR AREA.
I HAVE A FRIEND WHO ACTUALLY
HAS ONE OF THOSE.
WE HAVE SOLAR WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE
HEAT PUMP YET.
WE&apos;RE WORKING ON THAT D.T. IS
PLANNING TO MAKE THAT
ELECTRICITY ZERO EMISSION
SEEMINGLY BEFORE THE FURNACES
IN THESE UNITS WOULD FAIL.
SO IT SEEMS ODD THAT THEY WOULD
BE TALKING ABOUT AIR BASED HEAT
PUMPS AND FURNACES WHEN THEY
COULD BE TALKING ABOUT HEAT
PUMPS THAT WOULD WORK
FABULOUSLY AND THEN IT WOULD BE
MUCH CLOSER TO ZERO EMISSION
ALL THE WAY THROUGH TO CLEANING
UP THEIR ACT WHILE THEY&apos;RE
LOOKING AT THE GROUND LOOP
PUMPS WHAT THEY SHOULD BECAUSE
DRILLING THE GROUND LOOP IS
BEST DONE EARLY IN THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND WHY THEY&apos;RE
NOT PUTTING SOLAR ON A LOT MORE
OF THESE ROOFS.
ME AND MY NEIGHBOR BOTH HAVE
SOLAR ON OUR ROOFS AND IT&apos;S
BEEN TERRIFIC.
WE REALLY LIKE IT.
MY BIGGER CONCERN HOWEVER ABOUT
TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS AND
SAFETY TRANSPORTATION MISSIONS
THE BIGGEST SOURCE
OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS IN
ANN ARBOR ARE OUR TWO ADOPTED
WAYS TO DEAL WITH THOSE
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS IN ANN
OR VMT REDUCTION 50 PERCENT
REDUCTION VMT AND MOVING TO
TWENTY FIVE PERCENT OF INTOWN
TRIPS BY BICYCLE.
CERTAINLY ALL OF THOSE EFFORTS
SHOULDN&apos;T FALL ON ONE
DEVELOPMENT BUT IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
LIKE THEY&apos;RE DISCUSSING THAT AT
ALL.
IT WOULD BE NICE TO HAVE SOME
DISCUSSION AND SOME OTHER
DOCUMENTS ABOUT THE VMT FROM
THIS DEVELOPMENT.
OTHER THING THAT BUGS ME IS
THESE TWO ARE TWO DIAGRAMS FROM
THE TRAFFIC STUDY.
YOU CAN ALL SEE THOSE THAT IS
NOT ON RAIL THAT IS NOT DVORIN
NEITHER ISRAEL NOR IRAN HAVE
CONTINUOUSLY LEFT TURN LANES.
BOTH OF THEM HAVE BIKE LANES.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THEY&apos;RE
STUDYING.
I MEAN THESE ARE EXAMPLES BUT
THIS IS PLENTY I TRAIL IT HAS
NO LEFT TURN LANES AND IT HAS
BIKE LANES.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF DANGER THAT WE
HAVE RIGHT NOW WITH VERY
AGGRESSIVE DRIVING IN THIS
AREA.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THEIR
TRAFFIC STUDY DEAL WITH THAT TO
SOME EXTENT IF THERE&apos;S ANYTHING
THEY COULD DO TO SOLVE THOSE
PROBLEMS AND IN PART TO SOLVE
THOSE PROBLEMS ARE LOWER
MOBILITY STUDY RECOMMENDED I&apos;M
READING IT HERE TO LOCATIONS
ALONG THE QUARTER THAT WOULD
BENEFIT FROM THE CONSTRUCTION
OF ROUNDABOUT&apos;S AS THE NEW
RESIDENTIAL VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR.
I SAW NO DISCUSSION ABOUT
EITHER.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON THIS.
THANK YOU FOR GIVING INTO CAN
GABBER TWENTY EIGHT HILCORP
FROM FORTY POINTS ARE PERFECTLY
FINE BY THE WAY.
I&apos;M SURE THE PETITIONER WILL
EXPLAIN WHY GEOTHERMAL FROM IS
LESS OF A CONSIDERATION HERE.
MY CONCERN IS THE THREE HUNDRED
TWENTY APARTMENTS THAT WILL BE
USING GAS FURNACES ALL ELECTRIC
FOR THE FIRST PORTION.
THANK YOU SAID IN THE PAST
UTILITY BILLS PRECLUDE HEAT
PUMPS, WATER SOURCE HEAT PUMPS
FOR THE TWENTY APARTMENTS.
THE LARGER IDEA IS THAT
AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY ARE NOT
COMPATIBLE IN NEW CONSTRUCTION.
THIS IS A FALSE NARRATIVE.
I CALL YOUR ATTENTION TO
EXHIBIT A. IN YOUR LETTER TO
DIFFERENT CONSULTANTS THE
OPERATING COST OF GASOLINE
ELECTRIC APPLIANCES I DENHA
QUESTION THE COMPUTATIONAL
ACCURACY SINCE SINCE PORTIERES
MODEL WHICH IS A STANDARD MODEL
BUT A MODEL IS ONLY AS GOOD AS
ITS ASSUMPTIONS EXHIBITER
ASSUMES PROFICIENCY OF EIGHT
POINT FIVE HSP AND 014
MAUNDERING HIGH QUALITY NEW
CONSTRUCTION USES SUCH LOW
EFFICIENCY HEAT PUMPS ARE A
MAJOR SUPPLIER IN THIS CLUB YOU
CAN&apos;T FIND A HEAT SYSTEM YOUR
FIRST PUMP SYSTEM BELOW
EIGHTEEN IN RETROSPECT FROM
COMPETING COMPLETELY IRRELEVANT
TO PURCHASING, HE AND IT
CONCLUDES ON AVERAGE TENANTS
WILL PAY FIFTY SEVEN UNITS WILL
PAY FIFTY SEVEN DOLLARS OR MORE
A MONTH FOR ELECTRIC AND
INTERIOR UNITS.
FORTY FOUR DOLLARS MORE A MONTH
.
HOWEVER THIS USER DATA IS
OCTOBER TWENTY TWENTY RATE THAT
RATE IS NOW TWENTY PERCENT
HIGHER IF YOU PLUG INTO ITS
CURRENT RATE OF ELECTRIC VERSUS
MOTOR GOES AWAY AND EVEN IF WE
TAKE IT AT FACE VALUE THERE&apos;S A
SOLUTION AND STRONGEST COME
WITH SOLAR PER RECIPIENT SIX
HUNDRED THIRTEEN DOLLARS A YEAR
FOR SAVING EVERY UNIT IN THE
VILLAGE REPAIRED YOUR BATTERY
BETWEEN ELECTRIC AND GAS AND
SOLAR PER UNIT ONLY ABOUT FIVE
DOLLARS PER SQUARE FOOT.
THE CONSTRUCTION COST BEFORE
FEDERAL TAX CREDITS LIKE REDBOX
AND LAST YEAR&apos;S GROWTH RATES
SUPPORT OVERALL MAKE THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ELECTRIC AND
GAS COULD EVEN TAKE AN EXHIBIT
AT FACE VALUE SMALLER
ADJUSTMENTS.
SO WHAT&apos;S THE DIFFERENCE?
AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY ARE FULLY
COMPATIBLE.
THERE IS NO REASON FOR THE NOT
TO GO WHERE HEAT OVER GAS FOR
THE ENTIRE PROJECT FROM OUR
CARBON EMISSIONS EXHIBIT SHOWS
THAT HEAT PUMPS PRODUCE ALL
OF TIME ENOUGH TO SAY THAT I
HAVE A SERIOUS RESERVATIONS
ABOUT THOSE CALCULATIONS AS
WELL REALLY OFF.
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE THERE ARE POSITIVES
TO PUTTING MORE THAN SIX
HUNDRED APARTMENTS AND HOUSES
IN AN AREA OF LAND WHICH IS NOT
BEING USED RIGHT NOW AND WAS
MOVEMENT TOWARD LESS
CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSION, BETTER
EMISSION, TOTAL ELECTRIFICATION
OF THE TOWNHOUSES.
WHAT IS ABSENT HERE IS
ELECTRIFICATION OF THE RENTAL
UNITS AND I AGREE WITH HIM THAT
THAT THE FIGURES REALLY
UNDERESTIMATE THE ADVANTAGES
OF ELECTRIC AND TOTAL
ELECTRIFICATION OF THE
APARTMENTS.
THE HOUSES WOULD INCLUDE SOLAR.
I HAVE SOLAR PANELS ON ON ONE
OF OUR HOUSES IN CHELSEA AND
AND WE DON&apos;T PAY THE ELECTRIC
BILLS BASICALLY AVERAGE OVER
THE YEAR.
AND SO THE ADVANTAGES
OF TOTALLY ELECTRIC ARE IN SOME
WAYS REDUCING THE INSTALLATION
COSTS BECAUSE HAD TO PUT IN THE
THE THE GAS PUMPS THE THE
METHANE PUMPS THERE WERE THERE
IS NO NO NECESSITY TO INSTALL
THE GAS SYSTEM ADDING SOLAR
PANELS WOULD DECREASE EVEN WITH
A MODEST NUMBER OF SOLAR
PANELS.
IT WOULD DECREASE OUR UTILITY
BY BY OVER ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
A MONTH AND THE PAYBACK PERIOD
FOR SOLAR PANELS RIGHT NOW IS
SOME PEOPLE WOULD SAY FIVE
YEARS PAYBACK.
I THINK TEN YEARS IN OUR
CLIMATE IS PROBABLY BETTER
THING OUR OLD SOLAR PANELS HAD
A PAYBACK PERIOD WHEN IT COST A
LOT FOR THE FOR THE SOLAR
PANELS MORE THAN TWICE AS MUCH
AS THEY ARE NOW.
OUR OUR PAYBACK PERIOD WAS
ABOUT THIRTEEN YEARS.
&gt;&gt; SO GETTING THAT BACK AFTER
THAT POINT EVERYTHING IS KIND
OF FREE ELECTRICITY FOR FOUR OR
FOUR FOR THAT WITHOUT HAVING
THE BURDEN OF THE OF HAVING
PAID FOR THE SOLAR PANELS WITH
SOLAR PANELS LAST FOR TWENTY
FIVE YEARS OR SO USUALLY THAT&apos;S
WHAT THE OLD WARRANTIES WERE
FOR.
WE MAKE EVERYTHING ELIGIBLE FOR
THE FEDERAL AND THE STATE
INCENTIVES AND IT SERVES AS A
GOOD EXAMPLE FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR TO REALLY WORK
AGGRESSIVELY ON THE A TWO ZERO
PROJECT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY WHICH IS
LIKE A LOW HANGING FRUIT.
IT&apos;S A REALLY GOOD PROJECT.
IT&apos;LL BE VERY EFFICIENT AND I
DON&apos;T THINK YOU SHOULD
COMPROMISE ON HAVING ONLY ONE
HALF OF IT BE ELECTRIFIED.
IT WOULD SIMPLIFY EVERYTHING.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD SERVE AS A GREAT
EXAMPLE OF A CITY AND SERVING
AS SERVE AS AN EXAMPLE TO OTHER
DEVELOPMENTS TOO IF THEY ALL
HAVE TO COMPROMISE.
BUT WE ONLY WANT TO DO THIS
.
WE ONLY WANT TO DO THIS.
IT KIND OF TAKES AWAY SOME
OF THAT STREAMLINING TOWARD LOW
CARBON EMISSIONS.
THANK YOU.
ALREADY IT LOOKS LIKE WE ARE
OUT OF PEOPLE IN THE ROOM.
&gt;&gt; SO IS THERE ANYBODY THAT IS
VIRTUAL THERE IS JAMES DEMORA.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
&gt;&gt; I THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
THEY CAN YOU ALL HEAR ME, MR.
JEMAA?
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
HELLO
?
HELLO.
HELLO
.
CAN ANYONE HEAR ME
?
HELLO
.
HOW ARE YOU?
&gt;&gt; I AM HAVING PROBLEMS WITH
VIRTUAL
ONE MORE TIME CAN YOU
HEAR ME NOW WE CAN HEAR YOU.
SORRY FOR THE TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTY IF YOU WOULDN&apos;T MIND
STARTING OVER OK SORRY ABOUT
THAT.
&gt;&gt; I YOU CAN&apos;T VERIFY AND YOU
CAN HEAR ME NOW WE CAN HEAR YOU
NOW OK THANKS.
&gt;&gt; MY APOLOGIES TO STUFF I&apos;VE
DONE ON MY END JUST VERY
QUICKLY I THINK I HEARD THIS
COMMENTARY I NEVER DO AT COULD
SAY THE LEAST YOU CAN DO I&apos;M
GOING TO MACROS OF HISTORY
STRIP CLAN OF WHICH THIS
PARCEL&apos;S PART OF IT AND TO SAY
THAT THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS
90 STERIA CLAN I CAN CLARK AND
I CAN ATTEST THAT SHOULDN&apos;T
HAVE BEEN BUILT BUT HERE WE ARE
.
I ALSO SAY SPEAKING ONLY FOR
MYSELF WHATEVER WE DO HERE
WE&apos;RE NOT PRESENT SPRAWL IN THE
ELSEWHERE IN THE TOWNSHIP I
SHOULD NOTE ROBERTSON BROTHERS
IS PLAYING A MAJOR DEVELOPMENT
LODI TOWNSHIP WE NEED I THINK
WE FORGET THAT OUR ACTIONS ON
HOUSING WE DO IT ONLY AND
ISOLATION OF INNER HARBOR AND
UNCONSCIOUS OF THE GREATER
SOUTHEAST REGION OF GREATER
SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN, THE REGION
OF DETROIT.
WE ARE IN A REGIONAL MARKET AND
WHAT WE DO WE NEED TO LOOK AT
IN THE TOTAL CONTEXT.
THAT BEING SAID, A LOT OF GOOD
THINGS ARE I&apos;VE SEEN TONIGHT IN
TERMS OF THE PROCESS HERE AND
STAFF HAS REALLY WORKED HARD IN
COMING UP WITH A GOOD PROPOSAL
AND I WOULD SAY OF ALL THE
MAJOR PARCELS IN THE NORTHEAST
AREA, THIS IS THE ONE THAT WAS
THE MOST BUILDABLE AND I SEE
SOMETHING FAIRLY RESPONSIBLE
HERE.
BUT I WANT TO APPRECIATE
SOMETHING KEN CLARK BROUGHT UP
A PREVIOUS SAY IN OTHER
SPEAKERS AS WELL AND THAT IS WE
NEED TO MAKE THIS ENTIRE
DEVOLVEMENT ALL ELECTRIC.
&gt;&gt; WE NEED TO MOVE CLOSER TO TO
ZERO GOALS.
I THINK YOU NEED TO HOLD THE
PETITION TO THE FIRE TO MAKE
THIS PROJECT ALL ELECTRIC AND
MOVING FORWARD TO ACHIEVE YOUR
GOALS IN TERMS OF ADDRESSING
THE CLIMATE CRISIS.
THIS IS WHAT I WOULD SAY IS THE
LEAST YOU CAN DO TONIGHT.
IT&apos;S A LOT OF WORK AND I THINK
THERE MAY BE SOME MORE GIVE AND
TAKE BUT BY MAKING ELECTRIC AS
OTHER SPEAKERS AS INDICATED, I
THINK YOUR MOVING FORWARD TO
SET A GOOD EXAMPLE AND FUTURE
PROJECTS IN FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
GOOD TO SEE.
ALL RIGHT, FOLKS, GOOD LUCK AND
I WISH YOU GOOD EVENING AND
THANK YOU CONSIDERING MY
REMARKS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
MR. KARTUN.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
CAN I CONFIRM YOU ARE AUDIBLE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH CHIEF
GUARD TOLD ME THAT YOU DRIVE
ABOUT FIVE MILES FROM THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT SEVEN
POINTS ONE WONDERFUL SOLUTION
ELECTRIFICATION THE APARTMENT.
THIS DEVELOPMENT WOULD PRODUCE
DENHA PROBABLE COSTS TO GAS FOR
THE TENANTS TO FUTURE GAS COSTS
ARE LIKELY TO RISE MORE THAN
ELECTRICAL COSTS LONG TO DEMAND
FOR TENANTS.
BUT HER THREE TENANTS ON THE
NETWORK POSITION TO AFFECT
CHANGE IN THE FUTURE FOR THEIR
OWN TENANTS.
SO PLEASE CONSIDER YOUR TO ACT
ON OUR BEHALF TO SECURE THEIR
CHANCE AT A CARBON NEUTRAL
LIVING ARRANGEMENT FOR THE
UPDATED PLAN THIS
OF IMPROVEMENT IT&apos;S STILL A
VERY LARGE CARBON FOOTPRINT FOR
30 TO 50 YEARS IN THE FUTURE BY
EMERGENCY THE CITY AND BY
EXTENSION THE PLANNING BOARD
SHOULD USE ALL OPTIONS AT ITS
DISPOSAL TO MINIMIZE THE
CLIMATE IMPACT OF NEW
DEVELOPMENTS.
&gt;&gt; SIX AS YOU&apos;VE HEARD MODEST
ADDITIONAL UNCITED SOLAR WOULD
ALLOW FOR ELECTRIFICATION
OF THE RENTAL SITES WITHOUT
GREAT FINANCIAL DIFFICULTY.
AND LASTLY, IF AFFORDABILITY
REALLY IS THE PROBLEM AND THE
COUNCIL IS ON THE BOARD IS
DETERMINED TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THEN THE CITY SHOULD BE ADVISED
THAT ITS TAX ABATEMENT OPTIONS
OR OTHER EQUALIZATION METHODS
TO SOLVE THIS.
THE COMMISSION WITH THIS
RECOMMENDATION TO COUNCIL THANK
YOU VERY FOR CONSIDERING MY
REMARKS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
, MICHAEL STRUTHER,
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
HELLO, THIS IS MICHAEL
STRUTHER.
I WANT COMMENT ABOUT THE
CONTRIBUTION TO THE ROTARY.
I THINK THIS IS GREAT.
THE ONE THING THAT I WOULD
COMMENT ON IS THAT THE CENTER
OF THE ROTARY ITSELF SHOULD NOT
BE JUST PAVED OVER.
THIS IS A MAJOR ENTRY POINT AND
THE COMMENTS WERE MADE
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THIS BEING A
TRAFFIC CALMING DEVICE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE SOME NATURAL
PLANTING&apos;S FLOWERS AND TREAT
THIS POINT OF ENTRY INTO THE
ANN ARBOR AREA AS IT WOULD
DESERVE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS HAVE
INDICATED A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION ALL RIGHTY.
OK, I WILL READ THE PROPOSED
MOTIONS MOTIONS AND I&apos;LL READ
THEM TOGETHER.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR R FOR A ZONING SITE PLAN
AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
SUBJECT TO THE PETITIONER
OBTAINING VARIANCE FOR THE
MAXIMUM FRONT SET BACK ALONG
DUVAN ROAD.
AND THE SECOND ONE IS THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
VILLAGE OF ANAMBRA WETLAND USE
PERMIT TO ALLOW FILLING IN
MITIGATION OF THIRTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OF WETLAND
DISTURBANCE AND ON SITE
MITIGATION.
&gt;&gt; SHOULD I ADD A PIECE ABOUT
THE APPROVED YEAH YEAH GOODNESS
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; LOOK IF I COULD READ A
RECOMMENDED I SHOULDN&apos;T DO
THAT.
YEAH I HAVE THE PRINTOUT
VERSION FROM WHEN I DID IT AT
FIVE FIFTEEN
.
THE SECOND MOTION YOU PRESENTED
IS UNCHANGED THE FIRST MOTION
WE WOULD RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR R FOR A
ZONING SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT SUBJECT
TO THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING FOR CITY
COUNCIL CONSIDERATION.
ONE PETITIONER OBTAINING A
VARIANCE FOR THE MAXIMUM SET
BACK ALONG DEVINE ROAD AND TWO
PUBLIC SERVICES ENGINEERING AND
SOLID WASTE REVIEW AND APPROVAL
INCLUDING ALL OUTSTANDING
REVIEW COMMENTS IDENTIFIED IN
THE SEPTEMBER 6TH TWENTY TWENTY
TWO ENGINEERING REVIEW NUMBER
FIVE MEMORANDUM AND IN THE
SEPTEMBER FIRST TWENTY TWENTY
TWO SOLID WASTE REVIEW AND ANY
SUBSEQUENT REVIEWS.
ALL RIGHT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
SAUV SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
LEE WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER WHICH SO ONE I
JUST WANT TO START MY COMMENTS
OFF BY THANKING THE PETITIONER
FOR HEARING US.
WE SAY A LOT AT THE TABLE AND
SOMETIMES THOSE THINGS ARE
ACCEPTED AND THE DEVELOPMENT
GOES AHEAD WITH WHATEVER PLANS
THE DEVELOPER HAD WITH THE
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES THAT YOU&apos;VE
MADE TO THE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; THE ADDITION OF THE BIKE
LANES I ACTUALLY BIKED UP TO
THE SITE TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT
BOTH FROM MY BIKE TO JUST SEE
HOW IT WORKS.
SO THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE A LOT
OF CONNECTION THAT WILL COME
THROUGH ALSO INTO THE PARK THE
DECISION FOR THE PETITIONER TO
GO AHEAD AND ELECTRIFY THE
FORCE AS WELL AS THE INCLUSION
OF SOME SOLAR ON THE PROPERTY.
&gt;&gt; SO LOTS TO SAY AND THE
CONTRIBUTION FOR THE ROUNDABOUT
TO DO SOME TRAFFIC CALMING
MEASURES IN THAT SPACE.
SO A LOT TO SAY THANK YOU FOR
AND HEARING AND APPRECIATE THE
REDUCTION IN THE PARKING.
&gt;&gt; BUT I&apos;M I&apos;M STILL STRUCK BY
THE FACT THAT THREE PERCENT
OF THE SQUARE FOOTAGE THAT IS
GIVEN OVER TO THE RESIDENTIAL
IS ALSO IS DEDICATED TO PARKING
WHEN YOU DO JUST THE THE MATH
ON IT, I RECOGNIZE THAT YOU
FEEL LIKE THAT
IS AN
APPROPRIATE AMOUNT OF PARKING
FOR IT.
I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT OUR
ZONING ACTUALLY SORT OF HAS
ZONED THIS AREA OF OUR CITY IN
A WAY THAT MAKES CAR DEPENDENT.
I WISH YOU WOULD CONSIDER
REDUCING PARKING FURTHER THAN
THE 10 PERCENT YOU HAVE MAYBE
TO ABOUT TWENTY FIVE PERCENT.
I AGREE WITH THE SPEAKERS THAT
HAVE SHARED AND I THINK THEY
DID A BETTER JOB THAN THE
COMMENTS I PREPARED AROUND THE
ELECTRIFICATION OF THE REST
OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND I WAS
PARTICULARLY CONCERNED AROUND
THE ATTACHMENTS FMG THAT LOOKED
AT THOSE HEAT SOURCE HEAT PUMPS
AND I AND SO I&apos;M APPRECIATIVE
TO MR. GARBER FOR DOING SOME
MATH ON THAT AND BRINGING SOME
INFORMATION FOR CONSIDERATION
ON HOW YOU COULD ACHIEVE IT.
AND THEN MR. CLARKES COMMENT
THAT CAME IN LATE TO US LATE
THIS AFTERNOON ASKING FOR SOLAR
IN THERE TO MITIGATE THE COSTS
BECAUSE WHEN YOU SPOKE TO US
EARLIER YOU WERE CONCERNED THAT
HAVING A HUNDRED TO TWENTY TO
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY PERCENT
INCREASE IN THE UTILITY COSTS
WOULD MAKE IT HARD FOR YOU TO
LEASE THOSE UNITS.
&gt;&gt; AND IT LOOKS LIKE THE MATH
THERE&apos;S SOME SPACE IN THERE TO
GET TO PARITY ON THAT.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I JUST WANT TO START
MY COMMENTS BY JUST ASKING
AGAIN FOR COMPLETE
ELECTRIFICATION.
AND THEN I DID HAVE ONE
SPECIFIC QUESTION FOR YOU WHICH
WHEN I READ THROUGH YOUR YOUR
MEMO BACK TO US WE JUST TRIED
TO FULL SCREEN THIS OK, THERE
WE GO.
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE PAGE NUMBERS
BUT IT&apos;S BEFORE EXHIBIT A YOU
HAVEN&apos;T READ THE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION AROUND THE CAMPUS
AND I JUST I WASN&apos;T CLEAR
WHETHER THE APARTMENT DWELLERS
COULD PARTICIPATE IN COMPOST.
SO THAT WAS JUST A QUESTION AS
I WAS REVIEWING EVERYTHING THAT
WASN&apos;T APPARENT TO ME.
YOU CAN REPLY I THINK THIS IS
THE TIME WHERE WE GET TO TALK
TO YOU SPECIFICALLY THOSE
QUESTIONS.
BUT THEN AGAIN I APPRECIATE
YOUR COMMENTS AND YOU KNOW, I
BELIEVE THIS IS A YOU KIND
OF ITERATIVE PROCESS AND I
THINK THAT THAT&apos;S JUST MAKES
FOR A BETTER PROJECT IN REGARD
TO THE PARKING.
I UNDERSTAND YOUR COMMENT.
WE CAN CERTAINLY LOOK AT THAT.
YOU KNOW, WE WE TOOK OUT 10
PERCENT WHICH FOR US IS A LOT I
THINK IN MY MIND WHAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S
REALLY DRIVING THE NUMBER IS
THE FACT THAT THERE&apos;S DRIVEWAY
PARKING IN FRONT OF A LOT THOSE
UNITS PARTICULARLY ALL OF THE
ATTACHED TO STORY AND THAT JUST
REALLY DRIVES UP THE NUMBERS
NOW I COULD SAY, YOU KNOW, YOU
CAN&apos;T PARK IN THAT AREA BUT I
MEAN IT JUST SEEMS TO BE A
SINGLE FAMILY THING TO HAVE
PARKING IN FRONT OF THOSE UNITS
REALLY NO STREET PARKING.
SO THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GUESTS
IS IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
SO I THINK THAT SKEWS THE
NUMBERS IS WHAT I&apos;M GETTING TO.
SO WE&apos;LL TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
OBVIOUSLY I WANT TO MOVE
FORWARD IF WE CAN WITH APPROVAL
AND OF COURSE WE CAN LOOK AT
SOME AREAS THAT THAT MAYBE WE
COULD REDUCE A COUPLE OF I
THINK TWENTY FIVE PERCENT WOULD
BE WAY OVERLY AMBITIOUS FOR US
TO DO.
BUT I&apos;M WILLING TO TAKE A LOOK
AT THAT AS AS WE MOVE FORWARD
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S CLEAR ENOUGH BUT I
UNDERSTAND YOUR CONCERN.
I APPRECIATE IT.
YOU KNOW, AGREEING WITH THE
NEIGHBORS ON THE APARTMENT
ELECTRICITY YOU KNOW THERE&apos;S I
GUESS THE WAY TO ANSWER THAT IS
THERE&apos;S ONLY SO MUCH WE CAN GO
WITH A PROJECT AND I THINK
WE&apos;VE GONE FARTHER THAN WE
NORMALLY WOULD HAVE.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR GOALS AT
THIS POINT.
THIS IS OUR DIRECTION AND THIS
IS THIS IS OUR PROPOSAL.
SO THIS IS HOW WE WANT TO MOVE
FORWARD.
WE DO HAVE AN EXPERT ON ON ZOOM
BUT I DON&apos;T IF WE NEED TO GO
INTO SPECIFICS ON IT IN ALL
COSTS GAS HAS GONE UP.
OF COURSE EVERYTHING HAS GONE
UP.
ELECTRICITY HAS GONE.
SO TO SAY THAT WE WERE SKEWING
THE NUMBERS BECAUSE OF THAT
EVERYTHING&apos;S GONE UP AND COSTS
YOU KNOW, IN THE PAST YEAR OR
SO I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S A
RELEVANT COMMENT
.
YOU KNOW, ADDITIONALLY, YOU
KNOW, THE THE TECHNOLOGY ISN&apos;T
QUITE THERE YET AND WE DO
RECOGNIZE THAT WE DO RECOGNIZE
THAT IT&apos;S GETTING THERE WHICH
IS WHY WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO FORCE
OUR JENNIFER GRANHOLM HAS A
COLD CLIMATE HEAT PUMP
CHALLENGE RECOGNIZING THAT THE
TECHNOLOGY JUST ISN&apos;T THERE YET
AND WE NEED TO WORK AT IT AS
YOU KNOW TOGETHER AS A TEAM
WE&apos;RE ACTUALLY INVOLVED WITH
THAT INITIAL MEETING ON THAT.
SO YOU KNOW, I ENCOURAGE
COMPRESSION HEAT PUMPS WITH
VARIABLE SPEEDS THERE.
WE&apos;VE DONE A LOT OF RESEARCH ON
IT.
THE COST JUST ARE MORE AND I
THINK THAT THERE WAS EVEN
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT BUT FOR THE
CHANGE IN GAS AND ELECTRICITY
COSTS WHICH AGAIN ALL COSTS
HAVE GONE UP.
SO OUR PROPOSAL IS TO IS
EXACTLY WHAT WE HAVE IN FRONT
OF YOU AT THIS POINT AS FAR AS
THE COMPOST, WE WEREN&apos;T
PROPOSING IT FOR THE APARTMENTS
.
WE DO HAVE IT FOR THE FOR SALE.
SO AGAIN, THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT THAT&apos;S PART OF OUR PLAN AT
THIS POINT IS NO COMPOST FOR
THE APARTMENTS BUT WE WOULD
HAVE IT FOR ALL OF THE FOR SALE
.
&gt;&gt; SO JUST COMING BACK TO THE
COMPOST, IS THERE ANY WAY YOU
WOULD CONSIDER DOING SOMETHING
IN THE CLUBHOUSE WHERE I
UNDERSTAND THAT PART OF IT MAY
BE WHERE DOES IT GET COLLECTED
AND WHERE DOES IT GET PICKED
UP?
YES, BUT YOU HAVE A CLUBHOUSE
AND SO JUST MAKING IT AVAILABLE
TO THE APARTMENT DWELLERS OR
THOSE WHO ARE LEASING THEIR
HOME TO BE ABLE TO HAVE A PLACE
WHERE THEY COULD DISPOSE OF THE
COMPOSER WITHIN THE CLUBHOUSE
BUILDING YOU&apos;VE BEEN VERY CLEAR
IT&apos;S YOUR DEVELOPMENT.
I AM NOT THE DEVELOPER.
I AM JUST HERE DOING MY JOB
WHICH ASK FOR THINGS AND ASK
QUESTIONS AND TO CLARIFY AND SO
THAT THAT&apos;S IT.
SO IT&apos;S UP TO YOU WHERE YOU
WANT TO PUT IT.
BUT IF THERE WOULD BE A PLACE
FOR YOUR APARTMENT DWELLERS TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE IN THE
COMPOST THAT JUST HELPS WITH
OUR OVERALL STEWARDSHIP OF THE
RESOURCES THAT WE HAVE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT REALLY IS A SPACE
LIMITATION.
SO WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT IF WE LOOK
AT THE PARK AND WE CAN LOOK AT
THOSE AREAS AS WELL, SEE IF
THERE&apos;S SOMETHING WE CAN MAYBE
WE CAN EXPAND THE EXISTING
ENCLOSURE TO SEE IF WE CAN ADD
SOME COMPOSTING TO IT.
SO I&apos;M HAPPY TO DO THAT AGAIN.
I WANT TO MOVE FORWARD FOR FROM
POSSIBLE BUT WE CAN CERTAINLY
LOOK AT THESE ITEMS.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THOSE ARE
OUT OUT OF THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GREG DICH
.
THANK YOU FOR COMING BACK TO US
WITH AS MUCH AS YOU HAVE COME
BACK WITH US.
&gt;&gt; THE I DID READ IN YOUR
LETTER THAT THE REASON YOU&apos;RE
NOT PROVIDING COMPOST FOR THE
APARTMENT DWELLERS IS BECAUSE
THEY&apos;RE NOT MAINTAINING THEIR
OWN LAWNS AND SO YOU DON&apos;T AND
ALSO IT&apos;S NOT A SERVICE THAT
THE CITY CONSISTENTLY PROVIDES
TO MULTI-FAMILY APARTMENTS BUT
I DID WANT TO TOSS IN THAT ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT&apos;S UNIQUE
ABOUT ANN ARBOR IS THAT YOU CAN
COMPOST YOUR TABLE SCRAPS
INCLUDING MEAT BONES.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE COMPOSTED
DEAD RABBITS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE IF I&apos;M SUPPOSED
TO DO THAT.
I DIDN&apos;T KILL THEM MYSELF HAD
SO I THINK THAT THEY&apos;RE THERE
COULD BE A CALL FOR COMPOSTING
AND WHERE WHERE RESIDENTIAL
WHERE SINGLE FAMILY COMPOSTING
IS PICKED UP WHERE YOU CAN HAVE
CARTS THE CITY CAN PICK UP FROM
APARTMENTS.
AND SO I MEAN IT&apos;S POSSIBLE AS
LONG AS THERE&apos;S A ROUTE AND
SINCE THERE IS A ROUTE AND YOUR
APARTMENT DWELLERS COULD OPT TO
USE CARTS, THEY MIGHT NOT ALL
OPT IN OR WHATEVER.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD BE GREAT TO THINK
ABOUT OFFERING THEM COMPOST.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ONE OF THOSE PROBLEMS
WHERE BECAUSE WE HAVEN&apos;T
UNIVERSALIZED THE SERVICE,
WE&apos;RE NOT WE&apos;RE NOT REALLY ABLE
TO ASK PEOPLE TO ACCOMMODATE IN
THEIR SITE PLANS COMPOSTING.
BUT AS YOU KNOW, BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE
MITIGATING A FAIR AMOUNT
OF METHANE ON THAT SITE, WE
LIKE TO TRY TO KEEP FOOD OUT
OF THE LANDFILLS AND I I WANT
TO EXPRESS JUST JUST A BIT OF I
JUST FEEL LIKE MY HEAD IS
SPINNING AND I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT
TO DO ABOUT IT BECAUSE I&apos;M
GETTING DIFFERENT NUMBERS RIGHT
.
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW TO
ADJUDICATE AMONG THOSE NUMBERS
THAT YOU KNOW A LITTLE BIT MORE
SOLAR THESE COSTS CAN BE
COMPARABLE IF THE BERRY AND I
UNDERSTAND WHY THE BARRIER FOR
YOU WOULD BE THAT IF IT&apos;S AN
INCREASED COST THAT PUTS YOU AT
A MARKET DISADVANTAGE FOR YOUR
RENTALS.
SO I UNDERSTAND I UNDERSTAND
WHERE YOU&apos;RE COMING FROM.
I WISH THERE WERE A WAY FOR ME
TO HAVE A REPORT AND THIS ISN&apos;T
NECESSARY.
THIS ISN&apos;T ON YOU.
I WISH THERE WERE A WAY FOR ME
TO HAVE A REPORT EVALUATING THE
DIFFERENT OPTIONS THAT WOULD BE
OPEN TO YOU AND TELLING ME IF
INDEED OUR RESIDENTS WHO WHO
OFTEN SPEAK TO US ABOUT THESE
MATTERS, IF THEIR CALCULATIONS
ARE CORRECT BECAUSE YOU KNOW, I
WISH THAT WE HAD A WAY TO
PERSUADE YOU THAT IT WOULDN&apos;T
BE MORE EXPENSIVE
BECAUSE WE
CAN&apos;T REQUIRE THE CITY WE CAN
ONLY ASK IT OF YOU.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE COME REALLY FAR TO
MEET US AND I I JUST REALLY,
REALLY WISH THAT WE WEREN&apos;T
GOING TO HAVE 312 UNITS THAT
ARE GAS POWERED IF IF IT&apos;S
FINANCIALLY FEASIBLE FOR THEM
TO BE ELECTRIFIED AND YOU KNOW,
WE KNOW DETI IS GOING SLOWER
TOWARDS GREEN ENERGY BUT IT IS
MOVING IN THAT DIRECTION.
WE MAY DO THERE ARE MANY
DIFFERENT THINGS THAT THE CITY
MAY DO TO ACTUALLY GET US ON
GREEN POWER MUCH SOONER THAN
DTT PROJECTS.
SO I JUST I&apos;M REALLY AT A LOSS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT TO DO ABOUT
THIS CONVERSATION AND MAYBE
THERE&apos;S NO WAY TO PURSUE IT
BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE
REGULAR REGULATORY AUTHORITY
AND YOU ARE DOING AN AWFUL LOT
ON THIS PLANET ON THIS THING I
DID SO I JUST I&apos;M JUST
EXPRESSING THAT BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
WANT TO BE SILENT IN THE FACE
OF WHAT OUR SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
IS ASKING FOR AND WHAT OUR
RESIDENTS ARE ASKING FOR.
&gt;&gt; I DID WANT TO MENTION THAT
THERE IS A IN THE STAFF REPORT
WHICH I BELIEVE WAS ONLY
UPLOADED TODAY.
THERE IS A MENTION OF THE
ROUNDABOUT AND THE CITY HAS
APPLIED FOR US DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION GRANT FOR THE
ROUNDABOUT AND THE MONEY THAT
ROBERTSON IS OFFERING THROUGH
THE BROWNFIELD TIF STRATEGY
WOULD HELP THE CITY MEET THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN WHAT WE CAN
GET FROM THE DOT AND WHAT IT
WILL TAKE TO DO THE ROUNDABOUT
THE THE THING THAT IS A LITTLE
BIT HARD THINKING IS THAT THIS
WOULD BE PROGRAMED FOR THE
TWENTY TWENTY SIX TWENTY TWENTY
SEVEN CONSTRUCTION SEASON THE
ROUNDABOUT WOULD AND THAT&apos;S A
LITTLE BIT HARD THINKING
BECAUSE IT IS AS UNSAFE AS YOU
SAY IT&apos;S A LONG TIME TO WAIT
AND THIS HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
YOUR DEVELOPMENT, RIGHT?
IT&apos;S NOT YOUR FAULT AND YOU&apos;RE
SORT OF COMING AT THE END OF A
LOT OF ADDED HOUSING AND YOU
ARE OFFERING TO HELP US BUILD A
ROUNDABOUT WHICH IS REALLY
GREAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I WISH THAT IN THE
MEANTIME, YOU KNOW, THE TRAFFIC
REPORT DOES MENTION THAT A FOUR
WAY STOP WOULD INCREASE THE
DELAY FOR TRAFFIC ON PONTIAC
AND IT WOULD BE ONLY A MARGINAL
IMPROVEMENT FOR THE PEOPLE ON
DEMAND.
BUT SOMETHING BREAKING THAT THE
VERY SWIFT PASSAGE OF TRAFFIC
FROM U.S. 23 TO THE
INTERSECTION OF BERTEN AND
PONTIAC WOULD BE NICE AND A
STOP SIGN, YOU KNOW, TO WIN,
YOU KNOW, ANOTHER FOUR YEARS
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A
ROUNDABOUT A FOUR WAY STOP
THERE IT SEEMS TO ME BE NICE TO
HAVE AND I DON&apos;T THINK THAT
THIS IS THE PLACE AT THIS TABLE
TO BARGAIN FOR IT.
BUT I WILL JUST PUT THAT OUT
THERE AND I DID WANT TO BECAUSE
YOU WONDERED WHAT WAS HAPPENING
WITH THAT AND I WANTED TO
ANSWER THAT.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF ANYONE ELSE
FEELS THE WAY I&apos;M FEELING ABOUT
THE NUMBERS.
IF ANYONE WANTS TO OFFER ME
SOME WISDOM SO I CAN SLEEP WELL
TONIGHT
OTHER DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER SAUV
FOR A FOUR
ELECTRIC I I THINK WE PUT A LOT
I APPRECIATE ALL THE WORK
THAT&apos;S BEEN DONE.
I JUST KIND OF ADD THE COMMENTS
MAYBE THE COMMISSIONER TO THE
PUBLIC THAT LIKE THERE&apos;S BEEN A
LOT OF WORK I BELIEVE ON YOUR
END TO TO RESOLVE SOME OF SOME
OF THE ELECTRIC MY
UNDERSTANDING FROM ENGINEERS I
WORK WITH ON A DAY TO DAY IS AT
THIS POINT IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE
FINANCIAL SENSE TO PROCEED WITH
GAS THAT&apos;S LIKE STATUS
FEEDBACK.
AND SO WE&apos;RE PROCEEDING WITH
MOST OF OUR YOU KNOW, OUR
PROJECTS IN OUR OFFICE WITH
ELECTRIC WITH THE CAVEAT
OF CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
RESTAURANTS ARE VERY HARD TO GO
ALL ELECTRIC WITH THE LOAD AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT SO I&apos;LL JUST KIND OF PUT
THAT OUT THERE LIKE I
UNDERSTAND THE AMOUNT OF OTHER
EFFORTS THAT HAVE GONE INTO
IMPROVING THIS DEVELOPMENT
SINCE LAST TIME WE&apos;VE SEEN IT.
AND SO I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THIS
MOVE FORWARD.
AND SO IF ELECTRIC IS AN
OPPORTUNITY IN THE FUTURE I
KNOW WE&apos;VE TALKED IT IN TWO
PARTS ABOUT THIS IT SEEMS THAT
CONVERSATION ONE IS ABOUT THE
SYSTEMS THAT YOU INSTALL AND
TWO IS ABOUT THE SOURCING
OF ENERGY FOR THOSE SYSTEMS
RIGHT.
AND FOR GAS SYSTEMS YOU CAN&apos;T
REALLY KIND OF FLIP THE SWITCH
ELECTRIC SYSTEMS YOU CAN FLIP
THE SWITCH FROM WHAT HE IS
DOING.
THEY&apos;VE CONVERTED MOST OF THEIR
SOURCING FROM COAL TO GAS NOW
ASKING THEM TO CONVERT TO
CONVERT FROM GAS TO SUSTAINABLE
SOURCES IS THE NEXT STEP WHICH
FROM MY UNDERSTANDING THEY&apos;RE
ACTUALLY A LITTLE BEHIND AHEAD
ON IN TERMS OF TWENTY THIRTY
GOALS.
&gt;&gt; SO IN TERMS OF WHEN THE
REPLACEMENT COMES AND THINGS I
DO AS YOU EVALUATE SOLAR AND
SOME OF THOSE OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE NEAR
FUTURE AND I THINK THINGS LIKE
ALL ELECTRIC APPLIANCES ARE
VERY EASY, YOU KNOW AND THAT
REALLY WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT THE
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO UM I KNOW EVERYTHING WE
WANT I THINK IS THE AMOUNT
OF HOUSING, THE AMOUNT
OF IMPROVEMENTS TO CONNECTIVITY
AND THINGS YOU KNOW, I FEEL
COMFORTABLE PROCEEDING SO I&apos;M
JUST GOING TO PUT THOSE
COMMENTS OUT ON MY SIDE
OF THINGS.
I DO A QUESTIONS I GUESS ABOUT
THEM NOTHING.
AND IF YOU HAVE ANY INITIAL
COMMENTS ABOUT LIKE HOW ARE YOU
CONTAINING ALL OF THE
UTILITIES?
IS IT LIKE CONCRETE HAS DOUBLE
CONDUIT LIKE WHAT IS THAT
STARTING TO LOOK LIKE ON YOUR
END?
&gt;&gt; LIKE HOW ARE YOU WORKING
THROUGH THAT?
SO I GUESS THE EASY ANSWER TO
THAT ARE NOT EASY ANSWER THE
QUICK ANSWER TO THAT IS OUR
CONSULTANTS OBVIOUSLY ARE
EXPERTS AT THIS DON&apos;T BELIEVE
THAT THERE WOULD NEED TO BE ANY
KIND OF SPECIAL LINERS OR
SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION METHODS
PARTICULARLY FOR THE FOR THE
SANITARY.
SO THAT THAT IS WHAT THEIR
ANALYSIS IS.
OBVIOUSLY WE NEED TO GET THE
CITY DEPARTMENTS COMFORTABLE
WITH THAT AND IF THERE IS A
DISCUSSION ON MAYBE ENGINEERING
CONTROLS AND TARGETED AREAS, WE
CAN WE CAN CERTAINLY DISCUSS
THAT THE HOURS CONSULTANT IS
ESSENTIALLY SAYING THERE&apos;S
METHANE AND SANITARY SEWER
LINES TO BEGIN WITH.
SO AND THEN THE HOMES WOULD
HAVE PASSIVE VENTING SYSTEMS
AND OBVIOUSLY THE EXISTING
VENTING SYSTEMS FOR FOR THE
UTILITIES JUST A NORMAL HOUSE
HAS SO I CAN HAVE BRETT STUNTZ
IF YOU WANT A MORE DETAILED
ANSWER THAN THAT.
BUT FROM A FROM AN INITIAL
STANDPOINT THEY ARE COMFORTABLE
AND AGAIN THEY&apos;RE THE EXPERTS
AND THEY HAVE EVERYTHING THEY
HAVE EVERYTHING ON THE LINE AS
WELL.
THEY&apos;RE COMFORTABLE WITH THE
EXISTING UTILITIES AS DESIGNED
IN THOSE AREAS.
WE&apos;RE NOT VERY HIGH ON METHANE.
I MEAN IT IS VERY LOW.
THE READINGS ARE VERY LOW.
THEY WE&apos;VE GOT FIVE HITS THAT
ARE ABOVE THAT ELEVATED FIVE
PERCENT AND THOSE ARE AREAS WE
CAN DISCUSS.
BUT GENERALLY SPEAKING THEY
DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CONCERN WITH
THAT.
SO IF YOU WANTED BRETT&apos;S
STANCES ON THE LINE BUT HE&apos;LL
PROBABLY YOU KNOW, HE&apos;LL
PROBABLY BORE EVERYBODY AS
USUAL BORES ME SO I&apos;LL LEAVE IT
TO SOMEBODY ELSE TO CALL HIM
BACK.
&gt;&gt; OH, I JUST DON&apos;T KNOW KIND
OF AN UPDATE BECAUSE IT WAS
LIKE NEW LIKE IN THE CONTEXT
FOR US.
SO I JUST WANTED TO SEE LIKE
WHAT THE PROGRESS WAS AND YOU
KNOW, WHERE AND CERTAINLY I
MEAN WE RESPECT THE CITY
DEPARTMENTS AND WE WANT THEM TO
BE COMFORTABLE.
SO I DON&apos;T THERE&apos;S NO ISSUE
WITH BEING ABLE TO RESOLVE THIS
MOVING FORWARD.
AND MY INITIAL THOUGHT ON THIS
WAS THIS REALLY IS MORE OF A
FINAL ENGINEERING QUESTION, AN
ISSUE TO RESOLVE SO I&apos;M
COMFORTABLE WITH THE YOU KNOW,
THE CONDITION I WISH IT WOULD
APPLY TO THE FINAL ENGINEERING
AND NOT TO CITY COUNCIL BUT WE
WILL HAVE A MEETING SOON AND
WE&apos;LL DISCUSS THESE THINGS AND
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CONCERN THAT
THERE WILL BE ISSUES.
I GUESS THE TWO OTHER COMMENTS
ONE WHICH IS I GUESS THOSE
ARMED FORCES ON TOP OF MY MIND
THE FUTURE SITE PLAN.
YES, I ASKED LAST TIME ABOUT
THE ENTRY IN TO THE DEVELOPMENT
JOBS A LITTLE BIT BECAUSE
OF THE WETLANDS TO THE ADJACENT
DEVELOPMENT AND I LIKE WE&apos;RE
NEGOTIATING BETWEEN THE
WETLANDS VERSUS REGULAR KIND
CONFLICT POINTS FOR THE FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT.
HAVE YOU DONE ANY SCHEMATICS
AND JUST IS THERE ANOTHER OUT
TO THE STREET OR IS IT INTERNAL
CONNECTION?
&gt;&gt; WOULD BE THE SAME
CONNECTIONS THOSE WE&apos;RE REALLY
STUCK WITH OUR CONNECTIONS.
THERE&apos;S NO WAY TO GET I MEAN WE
COULD BUILD A BRIDGE BUT
THERE&apos;D BE NO REASON TO DO THAT
SOUTH OF OUR EXISTING ENTRANCE
ON PONTCHARTRAIN THERE&apos;S JUST A
WETLAND COMPLEX THAT IT&apos;S
IMPOSSIBLE TO GO OVER.
SO REALLY THE FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT THAT YOU&apos;RE GOING
TO SEE, MOST OF IT WILL BE
CONCENTRATED ON THAT AREA.
IF YOU REMEMBER THE SITE PLAN
THE AREA NORTH UP TO DUVAN SO
THAT THAT WOULD BE WHERE THE
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE.
&gt;&gt; OKAY.
AND THEN MY OTHER WHICH IS
MAYBE MORE OF A NO BECAUSE
WE&apos;VE SEEN ALL OF THESE
DEVELOPMENTS COME ONE BY ONE.
IT&apos;S VERY HARD TO PLAN BUT YOU
KNOW, AS YOU GO IN BEING A GOOD
NEIGHBOR AND FINDING
CONNECTIONS BETWEEN EACH
OF THESE NEIGHBORHOODS, I THINK
REALLY LEANS INTO THE BANKABLE
WALKABLE THAT WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO
GO ON TO THESE HEAVY TRAFFIC
PATTERNS THAT THERE ARE
NEIGHBORHOODS TO ACTUALLY BUY
THROUGH.
YES.
TO REALLY CUT THROUGH BETWEEN
EACH ONE.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE&apos;RE DEVELOPING
ISOLATED NEIGHBORHOODS.
I&apos;LL REACH OUT ONTO IT AND SORT
OF REACH INTO EACH OTHER&apos;S KIND
OF BACKYARDS AND ROADS.
SO AS YOU GET GOING, IF YOU
FIND CONNECTION POINTS TO
ENGINEER AND CUT ACROSS
PROPERTY LINES TO MERGE THOSE
STREETS, I THINK THAT&apos;S A
FANTASTIC MOVEMENT FORWARD FOR
YOU KNOW, THE WHOLE AREA UP
HERE.
&gt;&gt; THE MORE DEVELOPERS CAN WORK
TOGETHER TO CONNECT,
INTERCONNECT LOTS WOULD BE
GREAT.
OK, UM
THE LAST ONE I JUST LIKE
KIND OF A COMMENT THE PARKING I
APPRECIATE KIND OF THE REMOVAL
OF PARKING AGAIN I&apos;LL JUST KIND
OF SAY TO MY JUSTIFICATION I
DON&apos;T HAVE TOO MUCH ISSUE WITH
THE STACK PARKING LOT MORE
RECENTLY APPLAUDED STACK
PARKING AS A WAY TO COUNT IT
WHEN WE HAD PARKING MINIMUMS
BUT BECAUSE THOSE CURBS TO THE
DRIVEWAYS REALLY LENGTHENED TO
THE STREET THAT BECOMES YOU
KNOW, IT&apos;S LIKE SIDEWALK CHALK
AND A PLACE TO LEARN HOW TO
RIDE A BIKE AND FOR TOYS TO
SPILL OUT FROM THE GARAGE AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO AT LEAST I TRY TO PAINT LIKE
THE BEST AND WORST CASE WHICH
IS LIKE IT&apos;S FULL OF CARS AND
THERE&apos;S NO PLACES FOR PEOPLE.
AND THEN THE FIRST PHASE WHICH
IS THERE&apos;S ACTUALLY A LOT
OF KIDS USING ALL OF THESE
DRIVEWAYS FOR ACTIVITY MERGE
TOGETHER.
BUT WITH THAT AGAIN, YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S PARTLY WITH OPERATIONS TO
AND HELPING ALL OF THE
RESIDENTS UNDERSTAND EITHER
OF THOSE THINGS COULD HAPPEN
AND EVERYBODY NEEDS TO BE
RESPONSIBLE AND MAINTAIN SIGHT
LINES AND SAFETY AND SPEEDS
THAT WE HAVE A WHOLE LOT
OF DIFFERENT OCCUPANTS ON THESE
ROADS AND THAT IT REALLY BLURS
TOGETHER.
SO AGAIN, I&apos;M JUST KIND OF LIKE
MAKING THE STATEMENT AND
OBSERVATION.
I&apos;M NOT ASKING FOR ANYTHING
HERE BUT I&apos;M SAYING IT BECAUSE
I REALLY DO APPRECIATE WHAT
YOU&apos;VE BROUGHT BACK FROM THOSE
COMMENTS.
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU&apos;RE LEARNING
A LOT FROM I THINK A LOT OF OUR
GOALS HERE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO IF ANYTHING, WE&apos;VE
SEEN A LOT OF THESE THINGS THAT
YOU CAN KIND OF TAKE THEM
REFLECT BACK ON FUTURE
DEVELOPMENTS TOO.
AND SO IT&apos;S JUST AN ITERATIVE
CONVERSATION.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S FUNNY YOU SAY THAT
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, WE HAVE
STARTED APPLYING THIS TO OTHER
OTHER PROJECTS THAT WE&apos;RE DOING
AND SOME OF THE OTHER CITIES
HAVE OBVIOUSLY KIND OF , YOU
KNOW, MOVE TOWARD TOWARD SOME
OF THESE GOALS AS WELL.
SO IT&apos;S INTERESTING YOU GET
INVOLVED WITH IT AND UNDERSTAND
IT SO SO PLEASE IF WE DON&apos;T SEE
ELECTRIC IN THESE APARTMENTS,
PUT ELECTRIC IN THE
DEVELOPMENTS THAT AREN&apos;T ASKING
FOR THEM.
I&apos;M WRITING IT DOWN.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
SO ONE SPECIFIC QUESTION AND
THEN I HAVE SOME SOME COMMENTS
I WANTED TO MAKE SO I THINK I
SAW ON THE SLIDE FOR THE SECOND
TIME BECAUSE I REMEMBER SEEING
IT THE FIRST TIME TO OVER FIVE
HUNDRED EV CHARGERS.
YES, I WAS DISTRIBUTED YES.
&gt;&gt; SO EACH UNIT WHICH WITH FOUR
HUNDRED EIGHTY FOUR HAS ONE IN
IT SO I MEAN THAT&apos;S KIND OF THE
BULK WE DO HAVE THIRTY SIX FOR
THE GUEST PARKING A LOT
OF THAT&apos;S CONCENTRATED IN THE
APARTMENT AREA AND AROUND THE
CLUBHOUSE BUT THAT IS WHAT
THAT&apos;S IN REFERENCE TO SO EACH
INDIVIDUAL GARAGE AND ALL
OF THE APARTMENTS WILL HAVE AN
ATTACHED GARAGE AS WELL SO EACH
EACH GARAGE WILL BE READY TO BE
READY BUT NOT THE ACTUAL
CHARGER.
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
SO IN THE OK SO FIRST OF ALL,
CAN YOU DO ME A FAVOR AND ON
THAT SLIDE IT&apos;S INCREDIBLY
MISLEADING SAYS OVER 500
HUNDRED CHARGERS SO THAT I READ
IN THE REPORTS I KNEW THAT THAT
WASN&apos;T TRUE BUT I MEAN THAT&apos;S
LIKE COMPLETELY MY FAULT WHICH
IS SO IN IN THE APARTMENTS WHO
WOULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
PUTTING THE CHARGERS IN THOSE
GARAGE SYSTEM?
&gt;&gt; OBVIOUSLY THEY NEED BUT IT
WOULD BE ON THE LIST.
YOU KNOW, I CAN IMAGINE THAT
MOVING FORWARD IF IT&apos;S THERE
THEY COULD POTENTIALLY STAY FOR
FUTURE FOR FUTURE RESIDENTS.
BUT I WOULD BE THE THE INTENT
WE DON&apos;T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
SYSTEM THEY&apos;RE GONNA BE USING
SO WE&apos;RE OBVIOUSLY WIRE IT FOR
EVERYBODY ELSE.
&gt;&gt; BUT I MEAN I GUESS I DON&apos;T
KNOW A WHOLE LOT ABOUT TECH TAX
CREDITS FROM THE BILL THAT WAS
JUST SIGNED BUT I&apos;M PRETTY SURE
EV CHARGERS WERE INCLUDED IN
THAT.
SO I MEAN YOU MIGHT BE ABLE TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF GETTING THEM
FOR SUPER CHEAP AND JUST HAVING
THEM INSTALLED AND I FULLY
AGREE THE SORRY ABOUT
MISLEADING THIS IS JUST THIS IS
THE SECOND TIME I THOUGHT AND I
WAS LIKE WAIT, I DON&apos;T THINK
THERE&apos;S ACTUALLY FIVE HUNDRED
YEARS I WANT TO ECHO MY
COLLEAGUE&apos;S COMMENTS ABOUT THE
LISTENING THAT YOU DID IN THE
WORK IN THE RESEARCH AND
EVERYTHING THAT YOU&apos;VE CLEARLY
PUT INTO THIS.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT I HEAR YOU
TALK ABOUT THIS PROJECT AND ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT I APPRECIATE
IS THAT IT REALLY SEEMS LIKE
LIKE YOUR VISION IS FOR THIS
ONE HOOD THAT HAS DIFFERENT
PRICE POINTS AND DIFFERENT
OPTIONS FOR PEOPLE.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S GREAT TO HAVE
APARTMENTS.
IT&apos;S GREAT TO HAVE THE FOR SALE
UNITS DIFFERENT SIZES,
DIFFERENT PRICE POINTS.
BUT I&apos;M ALSO SEEING SORT
OF THIS DICHOTOMY WHERE YOU&apos;VE
GOT APARTMENTS ON ONE SIDE AND
YOU HAVE FOR SALE UNITS.
WE HAVE ALL ELECTRIC AND WE
HAVE GAS, WE HAVE COMPOSTING
AND WE HAVE NOT COMPOSTING.
AND SO I GUESS I WOULD JUST
ENCOURAGE YOU TO THINK ABOUT
HOW PRACTICE YOU CAN MAKE THIS
FEEL LIKE ONE COHESIVE LIKE
VILLAGE NEIGHBORHOOD WOULD BE
GREAT IF IT WAS ALL ELECTRIC.
BUT I THINK WE&apos;VE KIND
OF BEATEN THAT TO DEATH A
LITTLE BIT.
I AM REALLY HAPPY THAT YOU SAID
THAT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE OPEN TO
ALL RESIDENTS.
&gt;&gt; YES, THAT&apos;S GREAT.
GOOD.
AND THEN A COUPLE OF THINGS YOU
STRUCK ME THAT I JUST WANTED TO
KIND OF ALSO COMMENT.
IT&apos;S GOOD.
THANKS FOR THE THINGS YOU SAID
THAT YOU WERE PUSHED OUT
OF YOUR COMFORT ZONE AND DOING
THIS PROJECT AND THAT&apos;S WHAT WE
WANT LIKE THIS LIKE THIS IS
IT&apos;S A NEW WAY OF DEVELOPMENT
BUT IT&apos;S WHAT WE NEED TO BE
DOING IS LIKE A STANDARD FOR
ALL DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK YOU KNOW THIS THINKING
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY AND
THINKING ABOUT YOU KNOW,
ANOTHER THING IT&apos;S LIKE TALKING
ABOUT GAS VERSUS ELECTRIC
APARTMENTS VERSUS FOR SALE.
THERE&apos;S HEALTH IMPLICATIONS
OF GAS LIKE WE&apos;RE NOT THINKING
ENOUGH ABOUT LIKE THE HEALTH
OF PEOPLE THAT LIVE IN PLACES
AND GET AROUND PLACES.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S COMBUSTION
APPLIANCES IF THEY&apos;RE NOT USING
THE FANS ARE NOT OPENING
WINDOWS LIKE IT CAN EXACERBATE
ASTHMA.
SO THEY&apos;RE JUST LIKE GOING TO
SORT OF THIS DICHOTOMY.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE THINGS THAT PEOPLE
TYPICALLY DON&apos;T THINK ABOUT
WITH DEVELOPMENT.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S GREAT THAT
YOU&apos;RE GETTING PUSHED OUT
OF YOUR COMFORT ZONE.
I HOPE THAT YOU SHARE WHAT
YOU&apos;RE LEARNING WITH OTHER
DEVELOPERS.
I&apos;M GLAD TO HEAR THAT YOU SAID
THAT YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT DOING
THIS ON OTHER PROJECTS BECAUSE
YOU ALSO SAID YOU APPRECIATE
YOUR GOALS MEANING A CITY,
RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; NO, WE&apos;RE NOT A BUBBLE LIKE
THIS NEEDS TO BE GOALS FOR
EVERYBODY I KNOW YOU KNOW THAT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I JUST WANTED TO CALL
THAT BECAUSE I THINK YOU KNOW,
WE&apos;RE AT A POINT WE&apos;RE PAST THE
POINT WHERE EVERYBODY IN THE
DEVELOPMENT FIELD NEEDS TO BE
THINKING ABOUT LIKE HOW DO WE
DO THINGS DIFFERENTLY?
WE&apos;VE CLIMATE CRISIS.
WE HAVE LIKE HEALTH CRISIS THAT
ARE STEMMING FROM THE WAYS THAT
OUR CITIES ARE DESIGNED AND OUR
BUILDINGS ARE DESIGNED.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THIS IS LIKE THE
POINT WHERE WE CAN REALLY PUSH
THE ENVELOPE.
&gt;&gt; SO GLAD YOU&apos;RE PUSHED OUT
OF YOUR COMFORT .
I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THE
LISTENING THAT YOU&apos;VE DONE.
YEAH, I&apos;M I&apos;M I I SUPPORT THIS
PROJECT BUT YOU KNOW, I JUST
ENCOURAGE YOU SORT OF LOOK AT
HOW TO MAKE IT MORE HOLISTIC
FEELING LIKE A REAL
NEIGHBORHOOD AND NOT YOU KNOW,
I JUST WORRY THAT YOU&apos;VE GOT
THIS ROAD AND THERE&apos;S
APARTMENTS AND THERE&apos;S FOR SALE
UNITS AND HOW CAN WE MAKE IT
SORT OF A LITTLE BIT MORE LIKE
ONE NEIGHBORHOOD RATHER THAN
THIS?
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK THAT&apos;S A REALLY
GOOD COMMENT.
WE WHAT YOU DON&apos;T SEE IS THE
MARKETING EFFORTS WE&apos;RE MAKING
AS FAR AS BRANDING IT AND HOW
WE&apos;RE GOING TO CONNECT THROUGH,
YOU KNOW, WAYFINDING AND
SIGNAGE AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO WE&apos;RE CERTAINLY THINKING
THAT ON THE NEXT LEVEL IT IS
DIFFICULT.
I MEAN IT&apos;S REALLY HARD TO PUT
PODS TOGETHER LIKE THAT BUT
HAVING THE THE WALKWAYS THROUGH
AND THEN HAVING THIS BRANDING
EFFORT WHERE OUR HOPE IS THAT
THAT WILL KIND OF ADD TO THAT
COHESIVE YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; SO I APPRECIATE THE COMMENT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER MYLES,
THANKS.
I THINK COMMISSIONERS&apos; HAVE
TALKED ABOUT LOTS OF THE
DIFFERENT THINGS THAT WE&apos;RE ON
HERE AND I&apos;M NOT GOING TO BEAT
A DEAD HORSE EITHER.
BUT YOU JUST TALKED ABOUT
MARKETING AND I THINK THAT THAT
THINKING ABOUT THE KIND
OF CLIENTELE WHO WOULD RENT AN
APARTMENT THAT HAS AN E THAT
HAS A GARAGE THAT IS WIRED FOR
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING.
I WOULD REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
THINK ABOUT WHO THOSE PEOPLE
ARE.
THEY&apos;RE PROBABLY GOING TO BE
PEOPLE THAT ARE PARTICIPATING
IN MY GREENPOWER THE WHO WANTS
TO HAVE WHO ARE WILLING TO PAY
POTENTIALLY IN THE VERY SHORT
TERM WHAT MIGHT BE A PREMIUM.
BUT IN THE LONG TERM GIVEN THE
PRICE FLUCTUATIONS OF THE COST
OF NATURAL GAS, I DO NOT THINK
ACTUALLY THAT THOSE NUMBERS
WILL HOLD WELL WE HAVE TO DO IS
LOOK TO YOUR RIGHT NOW TO SEE
KIND OF WHAT HAPPENS WITH THE
PRICE OF NATURAL GAS, THE COST
OF RENEWABLES IS IS BUILT IN
WHEN YOU CONSTRUCT IT, YOU KNOW
WHAT THE COST IS GOING TO BE IN
THE FUTURE RELATED TO THAT.
AND AS YOU&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT IT
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW AT WHAT POINT
YOU TALK TO THE UTILITIES ABOUT
YOUR CONNECTION I MAKING SURE
THAT YOU&apos;RE EXERCISING I MEAN
WHAT I UNDERSTAND IN ORDER IT&apos;S
NOT JUST THE CHARGER IN THE
GARAGE YOU HAVE TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE THAT THE ELECTRICAL
BOX CAN HANDLE THE THE DRAW
OF OF ALLOWING FOR EV CHARGING
THAT&apos;S MUCH CHEAPER BASED ON
WHEN WE WROTE THE EV ORDINANCE
IN THE CITY TALKING TO D.T.
THAT&apos;S MUCH EASIER EARLY ON I
WOULD BAND FOR THIS MANY
CHARGERS THAT THAT COULD BE
SUBSTANTIAL THAT REQUIRE
SUBSTANTIAL UPGRADE THINKING
ABOUT HOW SOLAR MIGHT ACTUALLY
ALLOW ADDITIONAL SOLAR MIGHT
ALLOW THAT CONNECTION TO BE
SMALLER WOULD COULD BE
SOMETHING TO JUST PUT ON YOUR
RADAR.
SIMILARLY IF THIS IF THE RENTAL
UNITS EVER DO ELECTRIFY AND I
AGREE WITH THE CALLER THAT IT&apos;S
MUCH LIKE THE FOR SALE UNITS
HAVE MORE AUTONOMY KIND OF IN
THEIR MECHANICAL SYSTEMS.
AND SO IF I HAD TO CHOOSE I
WOULD I WOULD PUT THE THE
ELECTRIC HEATING IN THE THE
RENTAL UNITS BECAUSE OF THAT
LACK OF AUTONOMY THERE I WOULD
JUST THINK ABOUT THAT WHEN
YOU&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT WHAT THE
SIZE OF YOUR CONNECTION IS AND
AND SOME OF THE INTERCONNECTION
COSTS IT&apos;S WAY CHEAPER NOW THAN
IT IS DOWN THE ROAD AND
PARTICULARLY FOR WHOEVER THE
OWNERS OF THOSE BUILDINGS WILL
BE AND OBVIOUSLY WE&apos;RE GOING TO
OWN ONLY APARTMENTS.
SO IT IS IMPORTANT TO US TO
THINK ABOUT THE FUTURE.
SO CERTAINLY FOR THE
REPLACEMENT YOU KNOW, I DO
BELIEVE THAT THOSE COSTS WILL
COME DOWN TO WHERE IT MAKES
SENSE AND SO WE DO WANT TO PLAN
FOR THE FUTURE WITH THAT.
SO THAT IS NO QUESTION ABOUT
IT.
WE WOULD WE WOULD BE HAVING
THOSE THOSE DISCUSSIONS EARLY
ON.
&gt;&gt; YES.
SIZING YOUR LIKE MAKING SURE
THAT WHATEVER CONNECTION YOU
GET TO THE GRID THERE IS A SIZE
FOR THAT.
YEAH, RIGHT.
LOOK AT THOSE NUMBERS AND AGAIN
WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF MARKETING
LIKE THIS WOULD BE ONE OF THE
FIRST RENTAL PROPERTY ENTITIES
IN ANN ARBOR THAT COULD KNOW
WHERE YOU COULD PROMISE NOT
ONLY BIKE LANES AND CONNECTIONS
TO THE PARK BUT HAVING AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING.
THE QUESTION THAT I HAD AND I
DID I WASN&apos;T AT THE LAST
MEETING I WATCHED IT BUT THE
MEETING IS ABOUT THE ROUNDABOUT
AND MAYBE THIS WAS HEAVIER THAN
THE LOWER TYPE.
I APPRECIATE THE COMMENT TO
BRINGING UP THE LOWER TOWN
MOBILITY STUDY WAS THAT
DISCUSSED STUFF THAT
SPECIFICALLY I MEAN THE VILLAGE
VILLAGE THE IS CALLED OUT HERE
WITHIN THE STUDY FOR INCLUSION
OF A ROUNDABOUT SO THE THE
STUDY DID CALL OUT FOR
INCLUSION OF A ROUNDABOUT AS A
WAY TO MITIGATE THE MULTIPLE
CHALLENGES AT PUTTING A TRAIL
DEVAR INTERSECTION SO STAFF IS
LOOKING FOR FEDERAL DOLLARS TO
CONSTRUCT THE ROUNDABOUT AND
IT&apos;S APPLIED FOR A GRANT WE
HOPE TO HEAR BACK FROM IN ABOUT
A YEAR OR TWO ABOUT WHETHER WE
ARE GOING TO QUALIFY FOR THAT
GRANT.
DOES THAT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION?
WELL, I&apos;M WONDERING IF WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT THE SAME
ROUNDABOUT BECAUSE AT LEAST THE
WAY THAT I READ THIS LIKE I
THINK WHAT I UNDERSTOOD IS THIS
THIS IS THE DISCUSSION ABOUT
POVERTY AT THE INTERSECTION
OF PONTIAC AND DO HIREN.
BUT MY READING OF THE STUDY
SUGGESTS THAT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S ON
BERTEN AT THE NEW RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT.
THAT&apos;S WHAT THIS READS.
IT SAYS PONTIAC TRAILOR MORE AT
HEART AND DRIVE SORRY.
YEAH, IT&apos;S PONTIAC TRAIL AT A
NEW RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
PARENTHESES VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR LOCATED NORTH SCOTTSDALE
DRIVE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
IS NOT A ROUNDABOUT THAT PUBLIC
SERVICES HAS REQUESTED GRANT
DOLLARS FOR THAT THE ROUNDABOUT
IS FOR THE PONTIAC TRAIL DUBAH
INTERSECTION.
I&apos;M JUST I&apos;M JUST CONFUSED
SINCE THIS IS SINCE THIS IS A
BRAND NEW DEVELOPMENT HOW IT&apos;S
CONNECTING INTO THE STREETS.
IF WE HAD A PLAN THAT CAME OUT
IN MARCH TWENTY TWENTY TWO THAT
SPECIFICALLY CALLS FOR IT, DID
THIS COME UP AT ALL IN YOUR
DISCUSSION WITH SO MY
UNDERSTANDING OF IT IS THAT
HAVING IT AT THE DUVAN
INTERSECTION WOULD SLOW DOWN
THE TRAFFIC AND KIND OF SUFFICE
FOR WHAT WHAT THAT PLAN HAD
CALLED FOR.
I&apos;M NOT A TRAFFIC EXPERT EITHER
SO WE DO HAVE OUR TRAFFIC
CONSULTANT ON BOARD ON THE
RESUME.
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT SHE COULD
SPEAK TO OR IF I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THE TRAFFIC ENGINEER WITH THE
CITY BUT YEAH, WE&apos;VE WORKED OUT
KIND OF THE GEOMETRIC OF OUR
ENTRANCE.
THERE&apos;S REALLY NOT MUCH ROOM
THERE BECAUSE OF THE WETLANDS,
THE DEVELOPMENT TO THE NORTH
OF US AND BECAUSE OF , YOU
KNOW, POLICIES TO THE WEST IT
DOESN&apos;T REALLY FIT.
I AGREE THIS IS A RECENT STUDY
SO IT IS CONFUSING.
BUT I DO KNOW THAT OUR PLAN AS
IT IS EXISTING OUR DESIGN TODAY
IS ESSENTIALLY WHAT TRAFFIC HAD
ASKED US TO DO.
WE HAD A THIRD LANE THAT WENT
THAT CONTINUED NORTH THERE THAT
WAS IMPORTANT BUT WE DIDN&apos;T
REALLY HAVE THE ROOM TO PUT IN
A ROUNDABOUT.
GOT IT.
YEAH.
I MEAN I AGAIN I FEEL THAT I
ENJOY WATCHING THE PREVIOUS
MEETING.
I THINK THAT THERE WAS A LOT
OF DISCUSSION.
I RECALL I THOUGHT THE
DISCUSSION WAS ABOUT BARTON
MAYBE MAYBE NOT.
I&apos;M SEEING SOME NODS HEAD YES.
AND SOME THAT&apos;S NO I DON&apos;T KNOW
IT&apos;S THAT ONE AND THAT SORRY
AND I TO THE FINISH BREATHLESS
THE LESS I CAN&apos;T TALK TO MY
STARTED TEACHING TOO EARLY THIS
MORNING FOR LOCATIONS AND THE
LAST ONE ON THE LIST IS THEN AT
DAVOREN.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS
DISTINCT IT SEEMS LIKE IT WAS
DISTINCT ANYWAY I IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S SUGGESTED AS THIS IS NOT
AN EITHER OR THERE ARE FOUR
LOCATIONS THAT WOULD BENEFIT
AND THIS IS ONE OF FOUR IN
ADDITION TO THE OTHER.
&gt;&gt; SO I YEAH.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT TO MAKE
OF THAT ESPECIALLY BECAUSE WE
PUT A LOT OF MONEY INTO
PLANNING AND TO SEE THIS AS A
RECOMMENDATION AND LESS THAN
EIGHT MONTHS LATER TO HAVE THAT
VERY DEVELOPMENT INCLUDED WHERE
WE&apos;RE I HAVEN&apos;T SEEN DISCUSSION
IT DOESN&apos;T SOUND LIKE THAT WAS
DISCUSSED IS ODD TO ME.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M NOT I DON&apos;T WANT TO
STAND IN THE WAY OF THAT.
I WOULD SUGGEST MAYBE
COMMISSIONER DISH THAT WHEN
SCHOOL&apos;S ON OR IN BETWEEN HERE
LIKE I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT TO MAKE
OF THIS DISH.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO I THINK I FEEL I AM STILL
CONFUSED SO YEAH MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT AT THIS
ROUNDABOUT THAT WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT NOW IS AT PONTIAC AND
DAVOREN.
YES THAT WAS ONE OF THE SITES
IN THE LOWER TOWN TRAFFIC STUDY
.
BARTON IS UNFEASIBLE.
WE CAN&apos;T GET THERE RIGHT AWAY
FOR IT.
SO AND THEN I THINK THEY
MENTIONED IN THE LOWER TOWN
TRAFFIC STUDY POSSIBLY THERE
WAS ANOTHER ONE IN BETWEEN BUT
I MEAN HOW MANY ROUNDABOUTS CAN
WE BUDGET FOR?
THEY&apos;RE EXPENSIVE.
SO I MEAN THIS DEVELOPMENT
GIVES US THE OPPORTUNITY TO GET
ONE ACTIVE DEVINE AND PONTIAC
IF WE GET THIS FEDERAL GRANT
WHICH IT SEEMS INCREDIBLE TO ME
IT TAKES TWO YEARS TO EVEN HEAR
ABOUT THE GRANT.
RIGHT.
AND SO THIS WOULD BE THAT WAS
WHAT WAS IN THE STAFF MEMO
ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF TWENTY
TWENTY SIX FOR TRAFFIC LEAF
THAT WE HAVE NEEDED FOR THE
LAST YOU KNOW, DURING THE COVID
YEAR.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE NEEDED AGAIN
SO IS SO I&apos;M NOT SURE.
SO YOU&apos;RE WHAT YOU&apos;RE WORRIED
ABOUT IS WELL IT&apos;S THAT THE
STUDY AT THE STUDY SUGGESTS
FOUR LOCATIONS INCLUDING THE
ONE THAT SOUNDS LIKE BARTON IS
INFEASIBLE BUT THAT IS ON THE
LIST THIS SPECIFIC THE THE
CONNECTING NEW RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT VILLAGE OF OVER
HERE IS ON THE LIST IN ADDITION
TO DUVAN AND THEN ALSO MORE
STREET AND SHAW STREET THAT
KIND OF CONNECT LIKE THE
INTERSECTION WITH PONTIAC.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M JUST I KNOW THAT
THERE WAS DISCUSSION SOUTH
OF THIS.
I KNOW CLEARLY IMPROVEMENT
NORTH OF THIS MAKES SENSE LIKE
THAT&apos;S ALREADY.
BUT BECAUSE WE&apos;RE MAKING A NEW
CONNECTION HERE, IT SEEMS ODD
TO NOT HAVE THAT DISCUSSION
ABOUT THE FEASIBILITY OF THAT
AT THIS POINT BECAUSE IT HASN&apos;T
BEEN CONNECTED YET.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I FEEL LIKE NOW IS
KIND OF OUR OPPORTUNITY TO
UNDERSTAND IF IT&apos;S FEASIBLE
ANYWAY I THE OTHER HANDS AROUND
THAT&apos;S DR. CLARK I WANTED TO
MENTION THE BARTON ONE.
IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT A SIDE THAT I
BELIEVE THAT IT WASN&apos;T THERE
WAS INFEASIBLE IT WAS THAT THEY
WOULD IMPACT A LEVEL OF SERVICE
WHICH IS JUST THE MEASURE
OF LIKE HOW MANY CARS PASS
THROUGH AND HOW QUICKLY.
SO THE LOWERTOWN STUDY DOES
MENTIONER AND I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF WE WANT TO WRITE THAT
OFF RIGHT AWAY.
IT IS INVISIBLE.
I VIEW IT AS PRIORITIES.
BUT ANYWAY, COMMISSIONER SAUV
I LATELY ALLUDED TO THIS IN
TERMS OF THE CONVERSATION I HAD
LAST TIME ABOUT THE STAGGERED
ENTRIES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT TO
THE WEST ON FRONTIER TRAIL.
SO THAT WAS OUR CONVERSATION
FROM LAST TIME I WAS TRYING TO
LINE THOSE UP.
SO AT LEAST THERE WAS KIND
OF THE STRAIGHT LINES AND AN
INTERSECTION INSTEAD OF THE
KIND OF STAGGERED AND THAT
DISCUSSION FROM LAST TIME WAS A
LOT ABOUT THE WETLANDS IN
MITIGATION AND THE CLEARANCES
AND THE RIGHT OF WAY AVAILABLE.
SO WE DID HAVE A DISCUSSION
REALLY AT THAT INTERSECTION
OF THE ENTRY ALONG PONTIAC
TRAIL FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT
RELATIVE TO EVEN SLIGHTLY
SHIFTING IT WHAT A ROUNDABOUT
WOULD LOOK LIKE THE AMOUNT
OF FOOTPRINT FOR IT, THE
EXTENSION FOR BUS STOP BIKE
LANE SIDEWALK ALL ALONG THAT
AREA.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT WAS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION LAST TIME WAS THAT
INTERSECTION IF THAT&apos;S HELPFUL
AND A LOT OF IT WAS MAYBE IN A
LOWERTOWN STUDY NOT UNDERSTAND
THE EXTENT OF THE SURVEY FOR
THE WETLANDS, YOU KNOW, FROM
THAT HIGH LEVEL THAT HAS BEEN
TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT ONCE THEY
ACTUALLY GOT ONTO THIS PARCEL
AND WAS WERE ABLE TO DO THE
FULL SURVEY AND WERE ABLE TO
DEEM IT NOT FEASIBLE RELATIVE
TO THE WETLANDS.
SO THAT&apos;S WHAT THAT&apos;S WHAT I
TOOK AWAY AT LEAST FROM THE
LAST CONVERSATION WHEN WE
TALKED ABOUT THAT INTERSECTION
.
THAT&apos;S MY UNDERSTANDING TO MY
OUR TRAVEL CONSULTANT IS ONLINE
IF YOU WANTED TO HAVE HER
SPEAK.
SO JULIE GROLL.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
WHY DON&apos;T YOU WHY DON&apos;T YOU ASK
HER?
I TEXTED HER SO SHE SAID YES SO
WE CAN GET JULIE CROLL.
SHE IS HEY YOU CAN HEAR ME WE
CAN OK, GREAT.
SO I COULDN&apos;T SEE THE NAME TAGS
.
IT WAS CORRECT.
AND SO THAT IS WHY WE CAN&apos;T PUT
A ROUNDABOUT THERE.
RIGHT.
CAN I SHARE MY SCREEN IN A
MOMENT YOU CAN HOLD IT MIGHT BE
HELPFUL THAT WE CAN IT SO
VITAMINES THE ARE OUR PROPERTY
IS HERE ON THE TOP OF THE THIS
IS OUR FIGHT ACCESS
IS THE
NORTH SIDE DEVELOPMENT TO THE
SOUTH NOT SOUTH OR TO THE EAST
OR THE WEST.
&gt;&gt; SORRY.
SO WHEN YOU HAD LOOKED AT
TRYING IDEALLY TO ALIGN THESE
DRIVERS THAT ONE YOU COULD WE
COULD HAVE POTENTIALLY LOOKED
AT AROUND BUT THE PROBLEM WAS
WE HAVE THESE WETLANDS RIGHT
HERE AND THERE&apos;S SIGNIFICANT
FALL BETWEEN THIS DRIVEWAY
THAT&apos;S PROPOSED HERE AND THE
EXISTING DRIVEWAY HERE.
THAT&apos;S REALLY WHERE WE HAVE THE
ISSUE SO FROM A PLANNING LEVEL,
YOU KNOW, IDEAL WORLD THAT
WOULD BE GREAT.
BUT WHEN WE GOT INTO THE
ENGINEERING AND STARTED
DESIGNING THE ACCESS THAT THIS
REALLY WAS NOT FEASIBLE TO
RELOCATE THIS DRIVEWAY AND THIS
ONE HAD ALREADY BEEN
CONSTRUCTED.
&gt;&gt; SO MITIGATIONS THAT WE PUT
IN HERE TO HELP KIND OF OFFSET
AND PROVIDE PEDESTRIAN
CONNECTIONS, WE HAVE NEW
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTION WITH
PUTTING IN SOME ADDITIONAL
SIGNAGE HERE.
RECTANGULAR REPPERT FLASHING
BEACON WILL BE INSTALLED HERE
TO PROMOTE ACTIVITY.
BUT THE ROUNDABOUT REALLY,
REALLY WASN&apos;T THE FEASIBLE
OPTION BECAUSE OF THE WETLANDS
ISSUE
.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
I WAS IN THAT REALLY HELPS IN
HAVING THE PICTURE HELPS I&apos;M
I&apos;M I WILL CONFESS THAT I&apos;M
STILL CONFUSED A LITTLE BIT
BECAUSE BASED ON THE THE
LOWERTOWN STUDY IT DOESN&apos;T
SUGGEST THAT THIS WOULD
INTERSECT AT SKY DEAL SUGGESTED
THAT THE INTERSECTION THE
ROUNDABOUT PROPOSED ROUNDABOUT
WOULD BE LOCATED NORTH
OF SLIDELL.
SO BUT I I SEEING WHERE THE
WETLAND COMES UP TO THE ROAD
LIKE MAYBE THAT IS THE
EXPLANATION.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE TALKED ABOUT IT ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE THIS IS A RELATIVELY
NEW PLANNING DOCUMENT SO AND I
THINK THAT IT&apos;S A MESS HERE
RIGHT NOW.
SO ALL OF THESE IMPROVEMENTS
ARE IMPORTANT IF THERE&apos;S ANY
OTHER OPPORTUNITY I JUST WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;VE
EXHAUSTED ALL OF THE THE
PERMUTATIONS HERE AND AND NOT
DECIDED LIKE OH THIS ONE
ROUNDABOUT IS THE RIGHT THING
RATHER THAN THINKING KIND
OF HOLISTICALLY ABOUT THAT.
BUT IT SOUNDS IT SOUNDS LIKE
THERE&apos;S LOTS OF THINGS THAT
WERE CONSIDERED HERE SO THANK
YOU COMMISSIONER WHICH OH SORRY
COMMISSIONER I DON&apos;T KNOW WHO
IS NEXT.
COMMISSIONER WISCH HAS
SOMETHING THAT BUILDING THAT&apos;S
GOING TO GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER, YOU HAVEN&apos;T
SPOKEN YET.
SURE.
ACTUALLY ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
I ACTUALLY WANTED TO VOICE WAS
ONE OF THE COMMENTERS I THINK
IT WAS KEN CLARKE REGARDING THE
FIGURES IT&apos;S FIGURES IT&apos;S ON
PAGE THIRTY EIGHT OF THE
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY REPORT.
IT&apos;S FIGURE NINE THROUGH ELEVEN
AND IT&apos;S REALLY SINCE WE&apos;RE ON
THE TOPIC OF THE POSITIVE
OFFSET ON THAT, IT DOES REFLECT
THE CENTER OF TURNING LANE AND
WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT THAT THAT
ISN&apos;T THE CASE.
SO JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT WAS REVISED.
I DON&apos;T WANT IT TO MISLEAD
SINCE IT&apos;S BASICALLY TALKING
ABOUT A POTENTIAL CONFLICT IF
PEOPLE ARE TURNING INTO THAT
LANE BUT THAT THAT&apos;S A WRONG
ASSUMPTION.
SO JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT WAS UPDATED AND I&apos;M
GOING TO KNOW NOW THAT I&apos;VE
KIND OF TALKED ON THAT I&apos;M JUST
GOING TO TALK OVERALL I
APPRECIATE ALL THE EFFORTS AND
I ALSO APPRECIATE ALL OF THE
PUBLIC&apos;S COMMENTS ON THIS.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE TO
TALK ABOUT OUR PRIORITIES AND
THE CLIMATE EMERGENCY THAT WE
ARE IN SO MY COMMENT LAST TIME
WAS TALKING ABOUT STRENGTHENING
MOTORIZED TRANSIT AND I THINK A
LOT OF THE IMPROVEMENTS THAT
YOU&apos;VE DONE HAVE DONE THAT.
SO POROSITY MAKING SURE THAT WE
HAVE AGAIN PATHWAYS THROUGH.
I&apos;M GOING TO ECHO COMMISSIONER
SURVEY&apos;S COMMENTS WITH RESPECT
TO JOINING WITH OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I&apos;M SORRY TO HEAR YOU DIDN&apos;T
GET WE&apos;RE ABLE TO CONNECT WITH
THE NORTH SIDE, GLENN, BUT IF
YOU COULD KEEP TRYING THAT
WOULD BE GREAT ON THAT.
RIGHT?
RIGHT.
SO NO, I WOULD LIKE TO SEE YOU
GETTING GREATER CONNECTIVITY.
I LIKE THE ADDITION THE
COVERED PART A BUS STOP AS WELL
AS AGAIN WITH THE NEW EIGHTY OR
EIGHTY MILLION AND THE
POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS IN THE
NEXT FIVE YEARS THAT WILL SEE
YES, WE WANT TO INCREASE THE
LIKELIHOOD PEOPLE ARE
LEVERAGING TAKING BUSSES AND SO
PROVIDING FOR THAT POROSITY AND
BIKE LANES AS WELL AS
CONNECTIVITY TO LESLEY PARK.
IT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT AGAIN THE
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY IF YOU
COULD JUST MAKE SURE THAT THAT
IS ACTUALLY IT&apos;S PAGE THIRTY
EIGHT AND FORTY ONE OVERALL.
AGAIN JUST TALKING ABOUT THE
IMBALANCE IMBALANCE OF HOUSING
TO JOBS IN ANN ARBOR AND
CREATING REDUCTION OF VMT ALSO
IS CONSIDERED THROUGH THE LENS
OF PROVIDING MORE TRIP
GENERATION LOCATIONS CLOSER TO
JOB ATTRACTION.
SO I THINK IN THAT THIS IS TO
ADD WELL I WOULD LOVE TO SEE
OBVIOUSLY ALL ATTEMPTS TOWARDS
CREATING ELECTRIFIED
OPPORTUNITIES FOR SPECIFICALLY
THE APARTMENT RENTALS AS WELL.
BUT AGAIN OVERALL I THINK
YOU&apos;VE DONE A MAGNIFICENT JOB
OF GRAPPLING WITH THE CONCERNS
WE VOICED LAST TIME.
SO I DO FEEL THAT WHILE WE
TACKLE SOME OF THESE SMALLER
NUANCES THAT THOSE COULD BE
DONE WHILE YOU GUYS ARE ON YOUR
WAY TO CITY COUNCIL.
SO THANKS FOR EVERYBODY&apos;S
FEEDBACK ON THIS IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
THIS IS A MASSIVE DEVELOPMENT
SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE TO GET
RIGHT AND LEAVE NO STONE
UNTURNED.
SO THANK YOU FOR GRAPPLING WITH
OUR COMMENTS LAST TIME,
COMMISSIONER, WHICH I JUST
WANTED TO COME BACK TO
SOMETHING THAT WAS IN MY NOTES
THAT I FORGOT TO BRING UP IN MY
INITIAL COMMENTS WAS THANK FOR
INCLUDING THE CONSIDERATION
OF THE BIKE SHARE ACTUALLY JUST
PIGGYBACKING OFF
OF COMMISSIONER LEE&apos;S COMMENT
AND THEN JUST WANTING TO PUT A
RECOMMENDATION TO AS YOU THINK
ABOUT THAT BIKE SHARE ELECTRIC
BIKES AS WELL AS ELECTRIFIED
BIKES SO THAT THE RESIDENTS
THAT ARE THERE IN THE LEASED OR
UNITS THEY CAN THEN TAKE TRIPS
TO THE GROCERY STORE WITHOUT
HAVING TO MAKE A CAR TRIP.
THAT IS GOING TO BE A GOOD
OUTCOME AND SO IT MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE.
&gt;&gt; PUT THAT INTO THE MIX.
WE&apos;LL DO COMMISSIONER LEE, I
HAVE ONE KIND OF SIDE PRACTICAL
QUESTION ARE THERE GOING TO BE
ANY KIND OF FAILSAFES OR
REDUNDANCE WHAT HAPPENS IF
THERE IS A MASSIVE POWER OUTAGE
IN THE AREA?
ARE YOU PLANNING ON OFFERING
FOR THE FOR SALE?
THIS IS KIND OF A LARGER
QUESTION OF GRID RESILIENCE IN
GENERAL.
WE JUST HAD A BIG POWER OUTAGE
LAST WEEK TUESDAY.
I THINK THAT WE SAW.
SO JUST WITH RESPECT TO ARE
THERE ANY CONSIDERATIONS THAT
YOU&apos;RE MAKING OF I MEAN FROM
GENERATORS THINGS OF THAT
NATURE I MEAN WHICH ACTUALLY
REQUIRE CONNECTION TO NATURAL
GAS FOR ELECTRIC?
I THINK IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE
HAVE TO CONSIDER REGARDING
FAILSAFES JUST GIVEN OUR GRID
IN THE CONDITION THAT IS IN SO
WHETHER IT&apos;S SOLAR BATTERIES
THAT ARE RETAINING BACKUP POWER
,WHETHER IT&apos;S SO MY QUESTION
IS HAS CONSIDERATION BEEN GIVEN
TO THAT FROM THE FOR SALE?
WELL, ELECTRIFIED UNITS I THINK
WE ALL NEED A GRAPH.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, NO I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S
ANOTHER CONCERN THAT WE&apos;VE HAD.
SO THAT WAS THAT WAS CERTAINLY
SOMETHING WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE TALKED
ABOUT AND I DON&apos;T THINK WE HAVE
AN ANSWER ON HOW TO HOW TO
ADDRESS THAT.
SO IT&apos;S PART OF THE LEARNING
PROCESS AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; I AGREE IT&apos;S A CONCERN.
THANK YOU MR. APRON&apos;S I I&apos;M
KIND OF RELUCTANT TO SPEAK
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE I HAVE A
DIFFERENT TONE BUT MAYBE IT
SEEMS LIKE THERE&apos;S ENOUGH
SUPPORT FOR THE PROJECT BUT I
DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S SO I JUST WANT
TO SAY LIKE I THINK I&apos;M
FRUSTRATED THAT IT TAKES LIKE
NINE VOLUNTEER COMMISSIONERS
AND AMAZING MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC SO MUCH TIME TO JUST
HAVE WHAT I THINK IS LIKE
PULLING TEETH OR LIKE DRAGGING
THE DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY
THROUGH THE MUD TO TRY TO GET
YOU AND I DON&apos;T MEAN THIS
DIRECTLY AT YOU BUT AT SO MANY
OF THE DEVELOPERS THAT WE SEE
COME HERE TOWARDS US LIKE TO
KIND OF I THINK JUST BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR OUR SHARED
PROBLEM LIKE IT&apos;S NOT THE
CLIMATE CRISIS IS NOT OUR
PROBLEM THE COMMISSION&apos;S
PROBLEM OR THE CITY&apos;S PROBLEM.
RIGHT.
IT&apos;S EVERYBODY&apos;S PROBLEM.
AND SO LIKE WE&apos;RE NOT I DON&apos;T
JUST FEELS LIKE WE&apos;RE NOT EVEN
ASKING FOR A REALLY RADICAL
STUFF.
WE&apos;RE NOT ASKING FOR A PASSIVE
HOUSE STANDARD OR ASKING TO
TALK ABOUT THE EMBODIED
CARBON OF THE PROJECT.
BUT LIKE I THINK AS ANYBODY WHO
WORKS ON PUTTING YOU KNOW,
ANYTHING TO DO WITH BUILDING
CONSTRUCTION, WE ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR A MASSIVE
AMOUNT OF CARBON EMISSIONS AND
I JUST THINK WE NEED TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THAT.
AND SO IT DOESN&apos;T IT JUST SEEMS
LIKE SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE
SHOULD BE VOLUNTARILY DOING,
PARTICULARLY IF IT IS GOING TO
IN THE VERY NEAR FUTURE MAKE
FINANCIAL SENSE EVEN MAYBE BY
THE TIME THIS IS ACTUALLY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
SO IT&apos;S VERY YEAH, IT JUST
FEELS VERY FRUSTRATING TO ME.
AND SO I ALSO AM APPRECIATIVE
OF THE OF THE THINGS WHICH ARE
IN THE PROJECT.
I THINK WE SET OUR STANDARDS
SUPER LOW SO THAT&apos;S HOW I&apos;M
FEELING AND YEAH.
SO YOU KNOW AND LIKE I I WANT
MORE HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
I THINK I&apos;M FRUSTRATED IN ORDER
TO GET IT.
I THINK WE HAVE TO MAKE SO MANY
CONCESSIONS TO OTHER THINGS
THAT ARE REALLY IMPORTANT TO
US.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S ALL THANKS
.
I AGREE WITH YOU.
I&apos;M I&apos;M FRUSTRATED WITH THIS
TOO.
I GUESS PART OF WHAT I THINK IS
DIFFICULT IS THAT IS DECLARED
THIS CLIMATE EMERGENCY AND THAT
WE HAVE TO ACTING ON AN
EMERGENCY IS DIFFERENT THAN
ACTING IN
OUR NORMAL LIVES.
AND I THINK WHAT WE&apos;RE TRYING
TO DO IS SORT GET PEOPLE TO ACT
LIKE IT&apos;S AN EMERGENCY AND I
THINK WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING IS THAT
PEOPLE ARE TAKING SMALL STEPS,
WHICH IS WHAT WE TEND TO DO IS
HUMAN BEINGS LIKE REALLY IF WE
STOP AND THINK ABOUT OUR DAILY
LIVES WE DON&apos;T WANT TO HAVE
LIKE A MASSIVE AMOUNT OF CHANGE
IN OUR DAILY LIVES.
RIGHT.
YOU JUST YOU IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
COMFORTABLE RIGHT TO KIND
OF KEEP GOING FORWARD AS
NORMAL.
&gt;&gt; AND I THINK WHAT WE&apos;RE IT
FEELS LIKE THIS IS BURDEN IS
SOMEWHAT ON OUR SHOULDERS
BECAUSE WE ARE PART OF THE
PROCESS OF MAKING THESE THINGS
HAPPEN AND WE KNOW THAT WE
DON&apos;T REALLY HAVE A LOT
OF CONTROL OVER IT BUT WE ARE
TRYING TO PUSH AND INSPIRE
PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO TAKE
SOMEWHAT OF A BOLD STEP AND I
THINK PART OF MY FRUSTRATION AS
WELL IS THAT I SEE OTHER PEOPLE
DOING THIS IN OTHER PLACES AND
SO IT&apos;S NOT LIKE GOING TO THE
MOON OR GOING TO MARS OR GOING
TO NEPTUNE OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
IT&apos;S IT IS HAPPENING.
SO THAT&apos;S THE THING I THINK
THAT IS HARD IS NOT NECESSARILY
HASN&apos;T HAPPENED IN YOUR
COMPANY.
RIGHT.
AND SO THAT&apos;S PART OF WHAT&apos;S SO
UNCOMFORTABLE IS LIKE WHOA WHO
ARE VENDORS?
HOW DOES THIS WORK?
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THE POWER
GOES OUT?
THERE&apos;S THIS THERE&apos;S ALL THESE
UNKNOWNS AND FOR A BIG
ORGANIZATION IT&apos;S LIKE WHOA,
HOW DO WE HOW DO WE HANDLE
THIS?
YOU KNOW, THIS IS THIS IS THIS
FEELS UNCOMFORTABLE AND AND I
THINK WE HAVE TO FEEL
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH WHERE WE ARE
.
I THINK THAT&apos;S PART OF WHAT&apos;S
SO HARD AND THIS MAY BE A
LITTLE HARD, YOU KNOW HOW
HERE&apos;S A CHANCE TO TELL YOUR
KIDS YOU REALLY DID SOMETHING
AND IT&apos;S HARD FOR ALL OF US I
THINK TO BE ABLE TO REALLY LOOK
AT OUR LIVES AND THIS IS
GETTING PERSONAL IN A WAY THAT
WE DON&apos;T USUALLY GET PERSONAL
BUT IT&apos;S LIKE THIS IS IT.
WE&apos;RE LIKE TEETERING IN A LOT
OF WAYS WITH WHAT WE&apos;RE DOING
AND WE JUST CAN&apos;T DO BUSINESS
AS USUAL AND SO IT&apos;S WE&apos;RE IN
THIS REALLY AWKWARD POSITION
WHERE YOU CAN&apos;T REALLY MAKE
PEOPLE DO THINGS.
WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO INSPIRE
PEOPLE TO DO THINGS AND WE ALSO
WANT TO KIND OF PUSH PEOPLE
ALONG TO AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S TOUGH
PLACE I THINK FOR US TO BE I
THINK WE&apos;RE ALL UNCOMFORTABLE
WITH THE POSITION THAT WE&apos;RE IN
IN TERMS OF WHAT WE CAN REALLY
ASK PEOPLE TO DO.
AND YOU HAVE DONE A LOT THERE&apos;S
BEEN PEOPLE UP HERE THAT HAVE
JUST STOOD UP AND SAID OH SORRY
THIS ISN&apos;T MY GIG AND SO I
REALLY DO I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THE THINGS THAT YOU ALL HAVE
BEEN DOING BECAUSE I THINK
THAT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT AND
THAT, YOU KNOW, TAKING A MODEST
STEP IS STILL TAKING A MODEST
SOME PEOPLE DON&apos;T WANT TO TAKE
ANY STEP AT ALL BECAUSE IT&apos;S
JUST IT&apos;S THE MARGINS ARE THIN.
IT&apos;S HARD TO GET THROUGH OUR
SYSTEM.
IT&apos;S REALLY EXPENSIVE.
I GET IT.
YOU KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
PART OF THE THAT&apos;S PART OF THE
PUZZLE OF HOW YOU&apos;RE MAKING ALL
THIS STUFF WORK RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO I FEEL KIND OF HAMSTRUNG
.
I FEEL FRUSTRATED.
I WOULD LOVE IT IF PEOPLE
EMBRACED WHAT WE WERE ASKING
THEM TO DO.
BUT I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT IT&apos;S
ALSO DIFFICULT TO GET BIG SHIPS
TO TURN, YOU KNOW, AND I THINK
THAT&apos;S THE YOU KNOW, THE
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY IS A
REALLY BIG SHIP AND THERE&apos;S
BEEN THERE&apos;S JUST PROCEDURES
AND WAYS THAT PEOPLE HAVE DONE
THINGS IN RELATIONSHIP WITH
THAT PEOPLE HAVE WITH HOW THEY
DO BUSINESS AND THIS IS A BIG
CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; SO I FEEL LIKE I CAN&apos;T
REALLY DO A WHOLE LOT IN TERMS
OF WHAT YOU KNOW, WHAT THE
TOOLS THAT WE HAVE IN FRONT
OF US.
BUT I SHARE THE FRUSTRATION
OF JUST THAT.
I FEEL LIKE WE NEED TO BE
ACTING LIKE WE&apos;RE IN AN
EMERGENCY TO YEAH.
AND THAT THE MORE PEOPLE STICK
THEIR TOES OUT OF THE
COMFORT ZONE AND CERTAIN
THINGS, THE MORE THAT IT&apos;S
EASIER FOR US TO BE ABLE TO SAY
TO OTHER PEOPLE HERE IT&apos;S OK.
YOU KNOW, OTHER PEOPLE ARE
TRYING TO US AND AND AND WE
REALLY NEED SOME GOOD LOCAL
EXAMPLES BASICALLY OF THIS LIKE
WORKING OUT OK FOR PEOPLE.
RIGHT.
SO WE HOPE THAT YOU CAN BE THAT
I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING
THIS IS WHAT WE&apos;RE DOING TO AND
YOU CAN&apos;T MAKE ALL DECISIONS.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF OTHER PEOPLE
BEHIND YOU AS WELL RIGHT.
SO THAT&apos;S IT LIKE THIS IS KIND
OF A BIG OPPORTUNITY FOR US
HERE TOO BECAUSE IT&apos;S A LOT
OF HOUSES I IT&apos;S A LOT
OF HOUSES AND AND I THINK
THAT&apos;S A GOOD THING FOR A LOT
OF REASONS AND IT WOULD JUST BE
AMAZING IF YOU ALL STEPPED UP
TO THE PLATE AND THAT FULL WAY
TO BE ABLE TO REALLY TAKE IT ON
AND SHOW THAT IT CAN BE DONE
BECAUSE I THINK IT CAN I THINK
THAT THERE&apos;S JUST BEEN OTHER
PLACES THAT ARE MAKING IT
HAPPEN AND I THINK PART OF WHAT
WHY IT&apos;S HAPPENING IN OTHER
PLACES IS THAT IT&apos;S THE NORTH
STAR FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE
DESIGN PROCESS AND WHEN THAT
HAPPENS THEN YOU LIKE YOU ARE
YOU&apos;RE DESIGNING EVERYTHING
AROUND THAT SO THAT THEN ADDING
THE ELECTRIC ISN&apos;T YOU&apos;RE DOING
KIND OF PASSIVE HOUSE STUFF AND
YOU&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT
ORIENTATION AND STUFF LIKE THAT
THAT IS KIND OF DRIVING A LOT
OF DESIGN TOO AND IT&apos;S HARDER
TO TACK THINGS ON KIND
OF FURTHER INTO THE DESIGN
PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I THINK THE THE
PLACES THE OTHER PLACES WHERE
THIS IS HAPPENING THAT&apos;S PART
OF HOW IT&apos;S HAPPENING IS THAT
PEOPLE HAVE THAT ORIENTATION
FROM THE VERY START AND THAT
IT&apos;S A LOT HARDER AFTER YOU GET
THIS FAR INTO THE REGULATORY
PROCESS TO JUST, YOU KNOW, SAY
OH WHEN WE&apos;RE DOING THIS OTHER
THING HERE TOO.
SO ANYWAY, I I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THIS CHANGES ANYTHING IN TERMS
OF HOW I&apos;M YOU KNOW WHAT I&apos;M
GOING ON MY DIATRIBE ABOUT BUT
I&apos;M I&apos;M FRUSTRATED WITH THIS
TOO.
I FEEL LIKE AGAIN THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF GOOD THINGS ABOUT THIS AND
IT WOULD JUST BE AMAZING IF IT
COULD KIND OF REALLY TAKE IT TO
THE NEXT LEVEL.
ALL I CAN DO IS JUST ASK AND
HOPE THAT YOU WOULD BE INSPIRED
TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT THAT
GROUP THAT WOULD BE WILLING TO
STICK THEIR NECKS OUT TO REALLY
THINK ABOUT WHAT THAT MEANS IN
TERMS OF WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE TO
BE ABLE TO DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I FEEL YOU I FEEL YOU
BOTH I UNDERSTAND EXACTLY HOW
YOU&apos;RE FEELING AND I APPRECIATE
IT.
OBVIOUSLY, YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
AWKWARD FOR US TOO BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S POLICIES BUT
THERE&apos;S ALSO YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE
NOT ASKING FOR A PARTY.
RIGHT.
BUT IT IS A LARGE PROJECT AND
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF STAKEHOLDERS
INVOLVED.
SO YOU KNOW, WE DO SEE THIS AS
AS AS FOR US GOING ABOVE AND
BEYOND, I KNOW IT&apos;S NOT ENOUGH
FOR YOU.
I GET THAT.
BUT BUT WE DO THINK THAT, YOU
KNOW, WHAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING IS
CERTAINLY GETS MOVING FORWARD
IN A DIRECTION THAT A LOT
OF OTHER DEVELOPERS WOULDN&apos;T DO
ON THIS SITE AND YOU KNOW THAT
THAT THAT TO US IS IMPORTANT
AND WE&apos;RE DOING THIS REALLY YOU
KNOW, OUTSIDE OF OF MAYBE WHAT
YOU KNOW YOU CAN FORCE US TO DO
SO YOU KNOW, I FEEL YOU I
UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING.
I DO APPRECIATE IT.
AND YOU KNOW, WE&apos;LL LOOK AT
SOME OF THESE THESE OTHER ITEMS
.
BUT YEAH, WE DO NEED TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH OUR WITH OUR
PROJECT.
ANYBODY ELSE OK?
I GUESS WE ARE ON TO A VOTE
CORRECT.
SO IT&apos;S BOTH OF THEM BOTH
MOTIONS RATHER THIS IS THE
APPROVAL OF THE ZONING WITH THE
TWO CONDITIONS TO RESOLVE
ENGINEERING AND SOLID WASTE
COMMENTS PRIOR TO GOING FOR
CITY COUNCIL AS WELL AS THE
CONDITION OF THE VARIANCE AS
WELL AS THE ISSUE THE
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ISSUANCE
TO THE WELL AND USE PERMIT AS A
REMINDER BECAUSE THIS IS
CORRESPONDING WITH A
LEGISLATIVE DECISION.
THE REZONING THE SITE PLAN WILL
ALSO PROGRESS TO THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR CONSIDERATION.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES COMMISSIONER GOOD BRANDELL
YES COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS NO.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES COMMISSIONER.
WHICH YES MOTION CARRIES.
THANK YOU.
WE APPRECIATE ALL YOUR
FEEDBACK.
THANK YOU.
OK, I THINK WE ARE ON TO ITEM
TEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
THERE&apos;S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP FOR THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE THAT IS
ANY ISSUE ACTUALLY AND FIRST
CON INDIVIDUALS HERE AND THEN
REMOTE TO SPEAK DURING THE
PUBLIC HEARING PRESS STAR NINE
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
OF GOING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS, CALL 877
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND END OUR MEETING I&apos;D
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO DO SIX TO UNMUTED
PRESS AH SIX TO STAFF ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT OR RAISE YOUR
HAND YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA FOR
EITHER METHOD PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TREGEAR
BRANDL PLANNING COMMISSION CAME
VERBER AGAIN.
I REALLY LIKE MY COMMENTS MR
RAFFARIN.
YOU&apos;VE SEEN HOW MUCH WE CARE IN
THIS COMMUNITY ABOUT
OUR
FUTURE.
OUR PRESIDENT I MEAN THE
CLIMATE CRISIS TO ANY OF US IS
SOMETHING THAT KEEPS US UP AT
NIGHT.
IT&apos;S ALL WE THINK ABOUT IN HER
SPARE TIME WE&apos;RE SEEING OUR
CITY CLIMATE ACTION PLANS
BASICALLY GO UP IN SMOKE IN
REAL TIME NOT JUST TONIGHT BUT
IN PREVIOUS MEETINGS WITH
PREVIOUS DEVELOPERS ON YOU
KNOW.
SO I&apos;D LIKE TO ASK YOU WOULD
WOULD YOU MEET WITH ME AND
OTHERS OF US WHO ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT THIS AND SEE IF WE CAN
WORK SOMETHING BACK A LITTLE
MORE HERE?
WE HAVE A LOT OF SMART PEOPLE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR OR FORMER
TERRIBILE PHYSICS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, FOR
EXAMPLE, OR BIOTECH COMPANY.
WE HAD A PEDIATRIC
NEUROSURGEON, DR. GARDNER ON
EARLIER TODAY FROM BUMI AND A
SMART I REALLY THINK THAT THAT
CAN HAPPEN AND WOULD BE
COMPATIBLE WITH ECONOMIC
FEASIBILITY OF YOUR PROJECT.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S ULTIMATELY YOUR
DECISION.
BUT WE REALLY APPRECIATE AN
IN-PERSON MEETING TO DISCUSS
IT.
I APPRECIATE MEETING THE THANK
YOU AND THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
FOR REALLY PROPER DISCUSSION
TONIGHT.
MUCH MORE ABOUT TO BE SERVED ON
SO A LOSS FOR WORDS WHICH MAY
BE A FIRST.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE IN THE
ROOM THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT ANYBODY REMOTELY?
&gt;&gt; YOU DO HUGER YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE REPORT USES
FOR THE THOUGHTFUL EFFORTS INTO
THIS PROTOCOL AND I WANT TO ASK
THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO MAKE
AN EFFORT TO SPEAK TO THE CITY
COUNCIL BETWEEN NOW AND THE
TIME THIS COMES TO A VOTE ABOUT
YOUR FEELINGS.
IT SEEMS TO ME TO BE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE CITY
COUNCIL TO MEET ITS IN ITS
EFFORTS TO SUPPORT THE
DEVELOPER IF THE DEVELOPER CAN
FIND A WAY TO GET TO THE POINT
THAT WE ALL WISH THEY WOULD GET
TO THIS IF THIS IS IF THIS
TRILLION IS THAT CAN BE PUT IN
PER UNIT WELL WE&apos;RE GOING TO GO
FOR A LARGE SUM OF MONEY FOR
CLIMATE ACTION.
THAT&apos;S WHAT THAT MONEY SHOULD
BE FOR.
HERE&apos;S A GREAT CHANCE TO SPEND
MONEY IN A WAY THAT WILL
GUARANTEE US A CARBON REDUCTION
THAT WE WANT.
SO PLEASE USE YOUR EFFORTS TO
SPEAK TO MEMBERS OF THE
COUNCIL.
I CERTAINLY WILL LIKE WE SHOULD
BE ABLE TO CRAFT A PLAN IF
WE&apos;RE JUST TALKING ABOUT FORTY
OR FIFTY DOLLARS PER MONTH PER
UNIT.
THAT&apos;S NOT THAT MUCH MONEY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS ALREADY WE
ARE ON TO ITEM ELEVEN WHICH IS
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS.
ANYBODY HAVE ANYTHING
COMMISSIONER LEE I FORGOT
EARLIER WHEN WE WERE DOING
COMMISSION REPORTS ABOUT
TRANSPORTATION ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT CAME UP WAS THERE&apos;S
A THERE&apos;S A I&apos;M SORRY WHAT&apos;S
THE RIGHT WORD FOR IT?
WE&apos;RE WE ARE LOOKING TO
BASICALLY ELIMINATE RIGHT TURNS
ON RED AND DOWNTOWN.
SO I JUST WANTED TO THE
DISCUSSION CAME BACK ABOUT
SETBACKS, VISIBILITY AND ALSO
KIND OF LIKE PEDESTRIAN
THOROUGHFARE I&apos;M SORRY.
OH YOU I&apos;M SO I JUST WANTED TO
GIVE YOU GUYS A HEADS UP THAT
THAT WAS PASSED.
WE SUPPORTED THE MOTION.
IT&apos;S GOING TO GO TO CITY
COUNCIL BUT AS FAR AS KIND
OF LIKE FROM THE LAND USE WE
TALKED A LOT ABOUT TAIWAN.
THE IDEA OF ZERO SAT BACK AND
THE INTERACTION WITH THE RIGHT
OF WAY.
SO JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU GUYS
A HEADS UP AT THE DOWNTOWN
ELIMINATION OF TURN RIGHT ON
RED IS MOVING FORWARD.
SO THAT&apos;S IT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
MR. LEINERT, DID YOU DECIDE
ABOUT THE MICHIGAN PLANNING
CONFERENCE?
UM, I&apos;M SORRY I DIDN&apos;T GET BACK
TO YOU.
YES, I HEARD I THINK FROM YOU
AND COMMISSIONER CLARK WE COULD
SUPPORT YOUR ATTENDANCE.
UM, THANK YOU FOR REMINDING ME
THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR
EMOTION FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO SUPPORT THE
ATTENDANCE OF COMMISSIONERS
CLARK AND TO THE PLANNING
CONFERENCE THIS YEAR.
SO OK COMMISSIONER DISH AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILT.
SURE.
DO WE DO A LITTLE VOTE HERE?
UH, VOICE VOTE WOULD BE FUNNY
ALL IN FAVOR I HAVE TO SAY I
KNOW I WILL DO WHAT I CAN TO
FIND YOU A PLACE TO STAY
ALREADY WE ARE ON TO ITEM
TWELVE WHICH IS ADJOURNMENT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER WIRCH
SECOND INVITE MR. ABRAMS WE ARE
DONE EIGHT FIFTY FIVE I WOULD